docs/Contributing/architecture/high-level-architecture.md, before:

# High level architecture

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Main system components](#main-system-components)

## Overview

Fleet's architecture follows a client-server model designed for scalability, security, and flexibility. The system consists of several key components that work together to provide device management, orchestration, and software management capabilities.

At a high level, Fleet consists of:

1. **Fleet Server**: The central component that handles API requests, manages the database, processes queries, and coordinates communication between all parts of the system. It provides both REST and GraphQL APIs for clients to interact with.

2. **Agent (fleetd)**: A lightweight agent installed on managed devices that includes:
   - **orbit**: The core agent component that manages communication with the Fleet server
   - **osqueryd**: The osquery daemon that executes queries and returns results
   - **Fleet Desktop**: An optional component that provides a local UI for end users

3. **Clients**: Various ways to interact with Fleet:
   - **Web UI**: A React-based frontend for administrators
   - **fleetctl CLI**: Command-line interface for automation and scripting
   - **Raw API**: Direct API access for custom integrations

4. **Storage**:
   - **MySQL**: Primary database for storing configuration, device information, and query results
   - **Redis**: Used for caching and managing live query results

5. **External Services**:
   - **TUF Server**: Provides secure updates for the agent components
   - **Telemetry**: Optional monitoring via Prometheus, OpenTelemetry, or Elastic APM
   - **External Logging**: Optional integration with external logging systems

The diagrams below illustrate how these components interact and the data flow for different operations like live queries, scheduled queries, and vulnerability management.

## Main system components

```mermaid
graph LR;
    
    subgraph Development
        fleet_release_owner[fleetd release<br>owner];
    end

    subgraph Host
        subgraph "Agent (fleetd)"
            orbit[orbit];
            osqueryd[osqueryd];
            desktop[Fleet Desktop];
        end
        desktop_browser["Host details<br>[browser]"];
    end

    subgraph Customer Cloud
        fleet_server[Fleet<br>Server];
        db[(MySQL)];
        redis[Redis<br>Live queries' results, etc. <br>go here];
        subgraph Telemetry
            prometheus[Prometheus Server];
            opentel[Open Telemetry]
            apm[Elastic APM]
        end
    end

    subgraph FleetDM Cloud
        tuf["<a href=https://theupdateframework.io/>TUF</a> file server<br>(default: <a href=https://updates.fleetdm.com>updates.fleetdm.com</a>)"];
        datadog[DataDog dashboard]
        heroku[Usage Analytics<br>Heroku]
        fleetdm[AI gen]
    end

    log[/Send logs to optional<br> external location/]

    subgraph Customer
        api[raw API]
        frontend["UI<br>React app"]
        fleetctl[fleetctl CLI]
    end


    fleet_release_owner -- "Release Process" --> tuf;

    orbit -- "Fleet Orbit API" --> fleet_server;
    orbit -- "Auto update all fleetd components" --> tuf;
    desktop -- "Fleet Desktop API" --> fleet_server;
    osqueryd -- "osquery<br>remote API" --> fleet_server;
    orbit -- "starts" --> desktop
    orbit -- "starts" --> osqueryd
    desktop -- "opens" -->desktop_browser
    desktop_browser -- "My Device API" --> fleet_server;

    heroku -- "Metrics from all customers" --> datadog;

    fleet_server == "Read/Write" ==> db;
    fleet_server == "Read/Write" ==> redis;

    fleet_server ==> Telemetry;
    fleet_server -- "metrics" --> heroku;
    fleet_server -- "fleetdm API" --> fleetdm
    fleet_server -- "queries/log results" --> log;

    Customer == "API" ==> fleet_server;

```



## The path of live query

### 1 - Fleet User initiates the query
```mermaid
graph LR;
    it_person[Fleet User<br>Starts a live query];
    api[API Client Frontend or Fleetctl];

    subgraph Cloud
        server(Server);
        dbredis[DB / Redis];
    end

    it_person --> api;
    api --> it_person;

    api <-- "1 - Initiate Campaign. Get ID" --> server;
    api <-- "2 - Register to notifications with ID" --> server;
    api <-- "WEB SOCKET" --> server;
    server <-- Notifications --> dbredis;

```

### 2 - Agent returns results
```mermaid
graph LR;
    osquery[osquery agent];

    subgraph Cloud
        server(Server);
        dbredis[DB / Redis];
    end

    osquery -- 1 ask for queries --> server;
    osquery -- 2 return results --> server;

    server <-- 1 return queries if found --> dbredis;
    server -- 2 put results in Redis --> dbredis;

```

## The path of a scheduled query

### 1 - Fleet User initiates the query
```mermaid
graph LR;
    it_person[Fleet User<br>Creates a scheduled<br>for a team / global];
    api[API Client Frontend or Fleetctl];

    subgraph Cloud
        server(Server);
        db[DB];
    end

    it_person --> api;
    api --> server;
    server -- Query stored in DB--> db;
```
### 2 - Agent gets config file (with the scheduled query)
```mermaid
graph LR;
    agent[Osquery Agent];

    subgraph Cloud
        server(Server);
        db[DB];
    end

    agent -- request download config file --> server;
    agent <-- teams and global cfg are merged --> server;
    server -- ask for cfg file--> db;
```

### 3 - Agent returns results to be (optionally) logged
```mermaid
graph LR;
    agent[Osquery Agent<br>Runs query and sends results];

    subgraph Cloud
        server(Server);
        log[Optional External Log<br>e.g. S3];
    end

    agent --> server;
    server --> log;
```


## Agent  config options
1 - Config TLS refresh 
(Typical period 10 secs) OSQuery pulls down a config file that includes instructions for Scheduled Queries. 
If both GLOBAL and TEAM is configured, there will be a config merge done on the Server side. 

2 - Logger TLS
(Typical period10 secs) Frequency of sending the results. (different than the frequency of running the queries)
To be improved: Currently the config file gets downloaded every time even if no change was done.

3 - Distributed (Typical interval 10 sec)
(Typical period10 secs) OSQuery asks for any Live query to run.


## Vulnerability dashboard
Typically hosted on our Heroku servers.
Could be hosted on customer servers.
Uses the Fleet server Token to access specific APIs that give information about vulnerability
status.

### Vuln dashboard hosted by FleetDM
```mermaid
graph LR;
    frontend[Frontend on web browser];

    subgraph Customer Cloud
        fleetServer(Fleet Server);
    end

    subgraph Heroku Cloud
        vulnServer(Vuln Web Server);
    end

    frontend --> vulnServer;
    vulnServer --> fleetServer;
```

<meta name="pageOrderInSection" value="1201">

Commit message:

add some g-software docs (#31270)
# Checklist for submitter

If some of the following don't apply, delete the relevant line.

## Testing
- [x] QA'd all new/changed functionality manually

docs/Contributing/architecture/high-level-architecture.md, after:

# High level architecture

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Main system components](#main-system-components)

## Overview

Fleet's architecture follows a client-server model designed for scalability, security, and flexibility. The system consists of several key components that work together to provide device management, orchestration, and software management capabilities.

At a high level, Fleet consists of:

1. **Fleet Server**: The central component that handles API requests, manages the database, processes queries, and coordinates communication between all parts of the system. It provides both REST and GraphQL APIs for clients to interact with.

2. **Agent (fleetd)**: A lightweight agent installed on managed devices that includes:
   - **orbit**: The core agent component that manages communication with the Fleet server
   - **osqueryd**: The osquery daemon that executes queries and returns results
   - **Fleet Desktop**: An optional component that provides a local UI for end users

3. **Clients**: Various ways to interact with Fleet:
   - **Web UI**: A React-based frontend for administrators
   - **fleetctl CLI**: Command-line interface for automation and scripting
   - **Raw API**: Direct API access for custom integrations

4. **Storage**:
   - **MySQL**: Primary database for storing configuration, device information, and query results
   - **Redis**: Used for caching and managing live query results
   - **S3/object storage**: Used for storing software installers and file carve results

5. **External Services**:
   - **TUF Server**: Provides secure updates for the agent components
   - **Telemetry**: Optional monitoring via Prometheus, OpenTelemetry, or Elastic APM
   - **External Logging**: Optional integration with external logging systems

The diagrams below illustrate how these components interact and the data flow for different operations like live queries, scheduled queries, and vulnerability management.

## Main system components

```mermaid
graph LR;
    
    subgraph Development
        fleet_release_owner[fleetd release<br>owner];
    end

    subgraph Host
        subgraph "Agent (fleetd)"
            orbit[orbit];
            osqueryd[osqueryd];
            desktop[Fleet Desktop];
        end
        desktop_browser["Host details<br>[browser]"];
    end

    subgraph Customer Cloud
        fleet_server[Fleet<br>Server];
        db[(MySQL)];
        redis[Redis<br>Live queries' results, etc. <br>go here];
        subgraph Telemetry
            prometheus[Prometheus Server];
            opentel[Open Telemetry]
            apm[Elastic APM]
        end
    end

    subgraph FleetDM Cloud
        tuf["<a href=https://theupdateframework.io/>TUF</a> file server<br>(default: <a href=https://updates.fleetdm.com>updates.fleetdm.com</a>)"];
        datadog[DataDog dashboard]
        heroku[Usage Analytics<br>Heroku]
        fleetdm[AI gen]
    end

    log[/Send logs to optional<br> external location/]

    subgraph Customer
        api[raw API]
        frontend["UI<br>React app"]
        fleetctl[fleetctl CLI]
    end


    fleet_release_owner -- "Release Process" --> tuf;

    orbit -- "Fleet Orbit API" --> fleet_server;
    orbit -- "Auto update all fleetd components" --> tuf;
    desktop -- "Fleet Desktop API" --> fleet_server;
    osqueryd -- "osquery<br>remote API" --> fleet_server;
    orbit -- "starts" --> desktop
    orbit -- "starts" --> osqueryd
    desktop -- "opens" -->desktop_browser
    desktop_browser -- "My Device API" --> fleet_server;

    heroku -- "Metrics from all customers" --> datadog;

    fleet_server == "Read/Write" ==> db;
    fleet_server == "Read/Write" ==> redis;

    fleet_server ==> Telemetry;
    fleet_server -- "metrics" --> heroku;
    fleet_server -- "fleetdm API" --> fleetdm
    fleet_server -- "queries/log results" --> log;

    Customer == "API" ==> fleet_server;

```



## The path of live query

### 1 - Fleet User initiates the query
```mermaid
graph LR;
    it_person[Fleet User<br>Starts a live query];
    api[API Client Frontend or Fleetctl];

    subgraph Cloud
        server(Server);
        dbredis[DB / Redis];
    end

    it_person --> api;
    api --> it_person;

    api <-- "1 - Initiate Campaign. Get ID" --> server;
    api <-- "2 - Register to notifications with ID" --> server;
    api <-- "WEB SOCKET" --> server;
    server <-- Notifications --> dbredis;

```

### 2 - Agent returns results
```mermaid
graph LR;
    osquery[osquery agent];

    subgraph Cloud
        server(Server);
        dbredis[DB / Redis];
    end

    osquery -- 1 ask for queries --> server;
    osquery -- 2 return results --> server;

    server <-- 1 return queries if found --> dbredis;
    server -- 2 put results in Redis --> dbredis;

```

## The path of a scheduled query

### 1 - Fleet User initiates the query
```mermaid
graph LR;
    it_person[Fleet User<br>Creates a scheduled<br>for a team / global];
    api[API Client Frontend or Fleetctl];

    subgraph Cloud
        server(Server);
        db[DB];
    end

    it_person --> api;
    api --> server;
    server -- Query stored in DB--> db;
```
### 2 - Agent gets config file (with the scheduled query)
```mermaid
graph LR;
    agent[Osquery Agent];

    subgraph Cloud
        server(Server);
        db[DB];
    end

    agent -- request download config file --> server;
    agent <-- teams and global cfg are merged --> server;
    server -- ask for cfg file--> db;
```

### 3 - Agent returns results to be (optionally) logged
```mermaid
graph LR;
    agent[Osquery Agent<br>Runs query and sends results];

    subgraph Cloud
        server(Server);
        log[Optional External Log<br>e.g. S3];
    end

    agent --> server;
    server --> log;
```


## Agent  config options
1 - Config TLS refresh 
(Typical period 10 secs) OSQuery pulls down a config file that includes instructions for Scheduled Queries. 
If both GLOBAL and TEAM is configured, there will be a config merge done on the Server side. 

2 - Logger TLS
(Typical period10 secs) Frequency of sending the results. (different than the frequency of running the queries)
To be improved: Currently the config file gets downloaded every time even if no change was done.

3 - Distributed (Typical interval 10 sec)
(Typical period10 secs) OSQuery asks for any Live query to run.


## Vulnerability dashboard
Typically hosted on our Heroku servers.
Could be hosted on customer servers.
Uses the Fleet server Token to access specific APIs that give information about vulnerability
status.

### Vuln dashboard hosted by FleetDM
```mermaid
graph LR;
    frontend[Frontend on web browser];

    subgraph Customer Cloud
        fleetServer(Fleet Server);
    end

    subgraph Heroku Cloud
        vulnServer(Vuln Web Server);
    end

    frontend --> vulnServer;
    vulnServer --> fleetServer;
```

<meta name="pageOrderInSection" value="1201">
