.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/story.md, before:

---
name: 🎟  Story
about: Specify an iterative change to the Fleet product.  (e.g. "As a user, I want to sign in with SSO.")
title: ''
labels: 'story,:product'
assignees: ''

---

<!-- **This issue's remaining effort can be completed in ≤1 sprint.  It will be valuable even if nothing else ships.**
It is [planned and ready](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/development-groups#making-changes) to implement.  It is on the proper kanban board. -->


## Goal

| User story  |
|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| As a _________________________________________,
| I want to _________________________________________
| so that I can _________________________________________.

## Key result

<!-- What quarterly key result (KR) does this story contribute to, if any? If it doesn't contribute to a KR, explain why it's being prioritized. -->

## Original requests

<!-- Insert the link to the feature request(s) that this story contributes to. Put "None" if it doesn't contribute to a request. For customer requests, add the `customer-xyz` label(s). -->

## Context
- Product designer: _________________________ <!-- Who is the product designer to contact if folks have questions about the UI, CLI, or API changes? -->
  
<!--
What else should contributors [keep in mind](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/development-groups#developing-from-wireframes) when working on this change?  (Optional.)
1. 
2. 
-->

## Changes

### Product
- [ ] UI changes: TODO <!-- Insert the link to the relevant Figma cover page. Make sure  wireframes show the UI down to 320px (min screen width). Put "No changes" if there are no changes to the user interface. -->
- [ ] CLI (fleetctl) usage changes: TODO <!-- Insert the link to the relevant Figma cover page. Put "No changes" if there are no changes to the CLI. -->
- [ ] YAML changes: TODO <!-- Specify changes in the YAML files doc page as a PR to the reference docs release branch following the guidelines in the handbook here: https://fleetdm.com/handbook/product-design#drafting Put "No changes" if there are no changes necessary. -->
- [ ] REST API changes: TODO <!-- Specify changes in the the REST API doc page as a PR to reference docs release branch following the guidelines in the handbook here: https://fleetdm.com/handbook/product-design#drafting Put "No changes" if there are no changes necessary. Move this item to the engineering list below if engineering will design the API changes. -->
- [ ] Fleet's agent (fleetd) changes: TODO <!-- Specify changes to fleetd. If the change requires a new Fleet (server) version, consider specifying to only enable this change in new Fleet versions. Put "No changes" if there are no changes necessary. -->
- [ ] Activity changes: TODO <!-- Specify changes to the Audit log page in the contributor docs. Put "No changes" if there are no changes necessary. -->
- [ ] Permissions changes: TODO <!-- Specify changes in the Manage access doc page as a PR to the reference docs release branch. If doc changes aren't necessary, explicitly mention no changes to the doc page. Put "No changes" if there are no permissions changes. -->
- [ ] Changes to paid features or tiers: TODO  <!-- Specify changes in pricing-features-table.yml as a PR to reference docs release branch. Specify "Fleet Free" and/or "Fleet Premium" if there are no changes to the pricing page necessary. -->
- [ ] Transparency changes: TODO <!-- If there are changes to the personal information Fleet can see on end user workstations, make sure wireframes include changes to the My device page. Also, specify changes as a PR to the fleetdm.com/better (aka Transparency page). Put "No changes" if there are no changes necessary. -->
- [ ] Other reference documentation changes: TODO <!-- Any other reference doc changes? Specify changes as a PR to reference docs release branch. Put "No changes" if there are no changes necessary. -->
- [ ] Once shipped, requester has been notified
- [ ] Once shipped, dogfooding issue has been filed

### Engineering
- [ ] Feature guide changes: TODO <!-- Specify if a new feature guide is required at fleetdm.com/guides, or if a previous guide should be updated to reflect feature changes. -->
- [ ] Database schema migrations: TODO <!-- Specify what changes to the database schema are required. (This will be used to change migration scripts accordingly.) Remove this checkbox if there are no changes necessary. -->
- [ ] Load testing: TODO  <!-- List any required scalability testing to be conducted.  Remove this checkbox if there is no scalability testing required. -->

> ℹ️  Please read this issue carefully and understand it.  Pay [special attention](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/development-groups#developing-from-wireframes) to UI wireframes, especially "dev notes".

## QA

### Risk assessment

- Requires load testing: TODO <!-- User story has performance implications that require load testing. Otherwise, remove this item. -->
- Risk level: Low / High TODO <!-- Choose one. Consider: Does this change come with performance risks?  Any risk of accidental log spew? Any particular regressions to watch out for?  Any potential compatibility issues, even if it's not technically a breaking change? -->
- Risk description: TODO <!-- If the risk level is high, explain why. If low, remove. -->

### Manual testing steps
<!-- 
Add detailed manual testing steps for all affected user roles. 
-->

1. Step 1
2. Step 2
3. Step 3

<!-- Consider: Do the steps above apply to all global access roles, including admin, maintainer, observer, observer+, and GitOps?  Do the steps above apply to all team-level access roles?  If not, write the steps used to test each variation.
-->

### Testing notes
<!-- Any additional testing notes relevant to this story or tools required for testing. -->

### Confirmation
<!-- The engineer responsible for implementing this user story completes the test plan before moving to the "Ready for QA" column. -->

1. [ ] Engineer (@____): Added comment to user story confirming successful completion of QA.
2. [ ] QA (@____): Added comment to user story confirming successful completion of QA.

Commit message:

Updating drafting process to include test plans

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/story.md, after:

---
name: 🎟  Story
about: Specify an iterative change to the Fleet product.  (e.g. "As a user, I want to sign in with SSO.")
title: ''
labels: 'story,:product'
assignees: ''

---

<!-- **This issue's remaining effort can be completed in ≤1 sprint.  It will be valuable even if nothing else ships.**
It is [planned and ready](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/development-groups#making-changes) to implement.  It is on the proper kanban board. -->


## Goal

| User story  |
|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| As a _________________________________________,
| I want to _________________________________________
| so that I can _________________________________________.

## Key result

<!-- What quarterly key result (KR) does this story contribute to, if any? If it doesn't contribute to a KR, explain why it's being prioritized. -->

## Original requests

<!-- Insert the link to the feature request(s) that this story contributes to. Put "None" if it doesn't contribute to a request. For customer requests, add the `customer-xyz` label(s). -->

## Context
- Product designer: _________________________ <!-- Who is the product designer to contact if folks have questions about the UI, CLI, or API changes? -->
  
<!--
What else should contributors [keep in mind](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/development-groups#developing-from-wireframes) when working on this change?  (Optional.)
1. 
2. 
-->

## Changes

### Product
- [ ] UI changes: TODO <!-- Insert the link to the relevant Figma cover page. Make sure  wireframes show the UI down to 320px (min screen width). Put "No changes" if there are no changes to the user interface. -->
- [ ] CLI (fleetctl) usage changes: TODO <!-- Insert the link to the relevant Figma cover page. Put "No changes" if there are no changes to the CLI. -->
- [ ] YAML changes: TODO <!-- Specify changes in the YAML files doc page as a PR to the reference docs release branch following the guidelines in the handbook here: https://fleetdm.com/handbook/product-design#drafting Put "No changes" if there are no changes necessary. -->
- [ ] REST API changes: TODO <!-- Specify changes in the the REST API doc page as a PR to reference docs release branch following the guidelines in the handbook here: https://fleetdm.com/handbook/product-design#drafting Put "No changes" if there are no changes necessary. Move this item to the engineering list below if engineering will design the API changes. -->
- [ ] Fleet's agent (fleetd) changes: TODO <!-- Specify changes to fleetd. If the change requires a new Fleet (server) version, consider specifying to only enable this change in new Fleet versions. Put "No changes" if there are no changes necessary. -->
- [ ] Activity changes: TODO <!-- Specify changes to the Audit log page in the contributor docs. Put "No changes" if there are no changes necessary. -->
- [ ] Permissions changes: TODO <!-- Specify changes in the Manage access doc page as a PR to the reference docs release branch. If doc changes aren't necessary, explicitly mention no changes to the doc page. Put "No changes" if there are no permissions changes. -->
- [ ] Changes to paid features or tiers: TODO  <!-- Specify changes in pricing-features-table.yml as a PR to reference docs release branch. Specify "Fleet Free" and/or "Fleet Premium" if there are no changes to the pricing page necessary. -->
- [ ] Transparency changes: TODO <!-- If there are changes to the personal information Fleet can see on end user workstations, make sure wireframes include changes to the My device page. Also, specify changes as a PR to the fleetdm.com/better (aka Transparency page). Put "No changes" if there are no changes necessary. -->
- [ ] First draft of test plan added
- [ ] Other reference documentation changes: TODO <!-- Any other reference doc changes? Specify changes as a PR to reference docs release branch. Put "No changes" if there are no changes necessary. -->
- [ ] Once shipped, requester has been notified
- [ ] Once shipped, dogfooding issue has been filed

### Engineering
- [ ] Test plan is finalized
- [ ] Feature guide changes: TODO <!-- Specify if a new feature guide is required at fleetdm.com/guides, or if a previous guide should be updated to reflect feature changes. -->
- [ ] Database schema migrations: TODO <!-- Specify what changes to the database schema are required. (This will be used to change migration scripts accordingly.) Remove this checkbox if there are no changes necessary. -->
- [ ] Load testing: TODO  <!-- List any required scalability testing to be conducted.  Remove this checkbox if there is no scalability testing required. -->

> ℹ️  Please read this issue carefully and understand it.  Pay [special attention](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/development-groups#developing-from-wireframes) to UI wireframes, especially "dev notes".

## QA

### Risk assessment

- Requires load testing: TODO <!-- User story has performance implications that require load testing. Otherwise, remove this item. -->
- Risk level: Low / High TODO <!-- Choose one. Consider: Does this change come with performance risks?  Any risk of accidental log spew? Any particular regressions to watch out for?  Any potential compatibility issues, even if it's not technically a breaking change? -->
- Risk description: TODO <!-- If the risk level is high, explain why. If low, remove. -->

### Test plan
<!-- 
Add detailed manual testing steps for all affected user roles.
-->

1. Step 1
2. Step 2
3. Step 3

<!-- Consider: Do the steps above apply to all global access roles, including admin, maintainer, observer, observer+, and GitOps?  Do the steps above apply to all team-level access roles?  If not, write the steps used to test each variation.
-->

### Testing notes
<!-- Any additional testing notes relevant to this story or tools required for testing. -->

### Confirmation
<!-- The engineer responsible for implementing this user story completes the test plan before moving to the "Ready for QA" column. -->

1. [ ] Engineer: Added comment to user story confirming successful completion of test plan.
2. [ ] QA: Added comment to user story confirming successful completion of test plan.
