terraform/addons/ses/README.md, before:

# SES Mailing Addon
This addon allows Fleet to send password resets via SES

## Requirements

No requirements.

## Providers

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="provider_aws"></a> [aws](#provider\_aws) | 4.60.1 |

## Modules

No modules.

## Resources

| Name | Type |
|------|------|
| [aws_iam_policy.main](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_policy) | resource |
| [aws_route53_record.dkim](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/route53_record) | resource |
| [aws_route53_record.ses_verification](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/route53_record) | resource |
| [aws_route53_record.spf_domain](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/route53_record) | resource |
| [aws_ses_domain_dkim.default](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/ses_domain_dkim) | resource |
| [aws_ses_domain_identity.default](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/ses_domain_identity) | resource |
| [aws_ses_domain_identity_verification.default](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/ses_domain_identity_verification) | resource |
| [aws_iam_policy_document.main](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/iam_policy_document) | data source |
| [aws_route53_zone.main](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/route53_zone) | data source |

## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| <a name="input_domain"></a> [domain](#input\_domain) | Domain to use for SES. | `string` | n/a | yes |

## Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| <a name="output_fleet_extra_environment_variables"></a> [fleet\_extra\_environment\_variables](#output\_fleet\_extra\_environment\_variables) | n/a |
| <a name="output_fleet_extra_iam_policies"></a> [fleet\_extra\_iam\_policies](#output\_fleet\_extra\_iam\_policies) | n/a |

Commit message:

Support passing in extra txt records to ses module (#24580)

terraform/addons/ses/README.md, after:

# SES Mailing Addon
This addon allows Fleet to send password resets via SES

## Requirements

No requirements.

## Providers

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="provider_aws"></a> [aws](#provider\_aws) | 5.66.0 |

## Modules

No modules.

## Resources

| Name | Type |
|------|------|
| [aws_iam_policy.main](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_policy) | resource |
| [aws_route53_record.amazonses_dkim_record](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/route53_record) | resource |
| [aws_route53_record.spf_domain](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/route53_record) | resource |
| [aws_ses_domain_dkim.default](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/ses_domain_dkim) | resource |
| [aws_ses_domain_identity.default](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/ses_domain_identity) | resource |
| [aws_iam_policy_document.main](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/iam_policy_document) | data source |

## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| <a name="input_domain"></a> [domain](#input\_domain) | Domain to use for SES. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_extra_txt_records"></a> [extra\_txt\_records](#input\_extra\_txt\_records) | Extra TXT records that have to match the same name as the Fleet instance | `list(string)` | `[]` | no |
| <a name="input_zone_id"></a> [zone\_id](#input\_zone\_id) | Route53 Zone ID | `string` | n/a | yes |

## Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| <a name="output_fleet_extra_environment_variables"></a> [fleet\_extra\_environment\_variables](#output\_fleet\_extra\_environment\_variables) | n/a |
| <a name="output_fleet_extra_iam_policies"></a> [fleet\_extra\_iam\_policies](#output\_fleet\_extra\_iam\_policies) | n/a |
