handbook/marketing/README.md, before:

# Marketing

This handbook page details processes specific to working [with](#contact-us) and [within](#responsibilities) this department.


## Team

| Role                               | Contributor(s)
|:-----------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Interim Head of Marketing         | [Mike McNeil](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mikermcneil) _([@mikermcneil](https://github.com/mikermcneil))_


## Contact us

- To **make a request** of the Marketing department, [create an issue](https://github.com/fleetdm/confidential/issues/new?assignees=&labels=%23g-digital-experience&projects=&template=1-custom-request.md&title=Request%3A+_______________________) and a team member will get back to you within one business day (If urgent, at-mention a [team member](#team) in the [:help-marketing](https://fleetdm.slack.com/archives/C01ALP02RB5) Slack channel).
  - Please use **issue comments and GitHub mentions** to communicate follow-ups or answer questions related to your request.
  - Any Fleet team member can [view the kanban board](https://github.com/orgs/fleetdm/projects/65) for this department, including pending tasks and the status of new requests.

> To **make a request** related to **product marketing**, **brand**, **press**, **brandfronts**, **pitchfronts**, **featurefronts**, **ideal customer profiles (ICPs)**, **personas**, or **targeting** [create an issue](https://github.com/fleetdm/confidential/issues/new?assignees=&labels=%23g-digital-experience&projects=&template=1-custom-request.md&title=Product%20marketing%20request%3A+_______________________) (If urgent, at-mention the [CEO](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/digital-experience#team) in the [#help-leadership](https://fleetdm.slack.com/archives/C0600L1TTPY) Slack channel).


## Responsibilities

The Marketing department is directly responsible for achieving revenue pipeline targets, increasing awareness and interest in the open-source project, and nurturing the Fleet community through participation in video, sponsored events, and other [programs](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#programs).
For responsibilities and rituals directly responsible by an Account Development Representative (ADR), follow [this outline](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gdjvqE8KGUC1fSWMWgNz8kn_R2i_MBg9ZxNrpnI4zGY/edit?tab=t.0).


### Refresh event calendar

Fleet's Head of Marketing is directly responsible for the accuracy of event locations, attendance dates, and CFP deadlines in the event strategy workbook.  At the end of every quarter, the Head of Marketing updates every event in the ["Event strategy workbook"](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1YQXAX2Q_WnGkAwMYjMbQpV3nbCj7gOBbv7Y0u4twxzQ/edit) (private Google doc) by following these steps:
1. Visit the latest website for each event.
2. Update the workbook with the latest location, dates, and CFP deadlines from the website.


### Begin or modify an advertising campaign

Any new ads or changes to current running ads are approved in ["🦢🗣 Design review (#g-digital-experience)"](https://github.com/orgs/fleetdm/projects/65).

To propose an ad, or a change to an ad:
1. Evaluate the buying situation before proposing any changes to ads. This determines the audience that will see each ad and which campaign it will be placed in. (Device management, vuln management, endpoint ops - security, endpoint ops - IT)
2. Experiment campaigns must follow the YYYY-MM-DD._{buying_situation}-{ad_name}_ format. (2024-01-12.mdm - Cross-platform MDM waitlist)
3. Image ads should follow the recommended size, centering, and asset guidelines. These are available on [Figma](https://www.figma.com/file/1J2yxqH8Q7u8V7YTtA1iej/Social-media-(logos%2C-covers%2C-banners)?type=design&node-id=2078-100840&mode=design&t=cHriEw2E7hLxgwuG-0).
4. Add your proposed ads to the ["🧫 Experiment review" agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1e2TFsV0JFFym7MvCUrJR1Wr2DVmqUgboKYFUXBEmCyI/edit#heading=h.kvp9pcc0kkq) (private Google doc) and attend the next episode.  During the meeting, existing ads will be compared against the newly proposed ads within the corresponding ad platform. ([Google Ads](https://ads.google.com/home/), [LinkedIn Campaign Manager](https://www.linkedin.com/campaignmanager/), etc.)
5. Make revisions and re-attend the meeting as needed until the planned change is executed.
7. Create a calendar reminder to check ad performance two weeks from the date changes were made.


### Measure intent signals

To measure and process intent signals, follow the steps in the [🦄⚡️🌐 Go-To-Market strategy doc (confidential)](https://github.com/fleetdm/confidential/edit/main/go-to-market-strategy.md#process-intent-signals).  


### Research an account

to research an account, follow the steps in the follow the steps in the [🦄⚡️🌐 Go-To-Market strategy doc (confidential)](https://github.com/fleetdm/confidential/edit/main/go-to-market-strategy.md#research-an-account) and move it toward sales-readiness **after** discovering [relevant intent signals](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/marketing#measure-intent-signals).


### Promote a post on LinkedIn

1. Create a classic campaign under ["Experiments"](https://www.linkedin.com/campaignmanager/accounts/509911695/campaigns?campaignGroupIds=%5B678398233%5D) following the YYYY-MM-DD.buying-situation - ad description with a goal of website visits or engagement to run for two weeks.
2. Choose the appropriate audience according to the buying situation and disable audience expansion and the LinkedIn audience network. 
3. When creating the ad for the new campaign, select "browse existing content" and find the post under the employee tab.
4. Launch campaign once approved.


### Settle content strategy

The Head of Marketing is the DRI for deploying Fleet's outward-facing content. The content schedule is settled significantly in advance to provide ample time for strategy and planning. Use the following steps to settle content strategy:

1. Using the [content calendar](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Hso0LxqwrRVINCyW_n436bNHmoqhoLhC8bcbvLPOs9A/edit?gid=809357993#gid=809357993), propose the content that Fleet will produce in the current quarter, and the strategy behind that content, including:
  - Release date: The date by which the content will be complete and finalized.
  - DRI: Person(s) responsible for the project management of this content.
  - Title (e.g. "Article: Fleet takes bacon to new heights with flying pigs release").
2. Attend a 30m meeting with Fleet's Client Platform Engineer & Community Advocate, CTO, and CEO to review and settle the proposed content.


### Settle event strategy

 Fleet's [Head of Marketing](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/marketing#team) is the DRI for executing Fleet events efficiently, on-brand, and on-strategy within Fleet's event budget. Events are settled significantly in advance to provide ample time for strategy and planning.  

1. Using the [event strategy workbook](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1YQXAX2Q_WnGkAwMYjMbQpV3nbCj7gOBbv7Y0u4twxzQ/edit#gid=1411322737), propose the events that Fleet will attend in the next 6 months, and the strategy for those events, including:
  - target buying situation of the audience
  - who from Fleet will attend
  - the training plan for Fleet attendees
  - which talk proposal Fleet will submit
  - all event materials, including printouts, banners, swag given out, and even the clothing worn by fleeties
  - estimated budget, including sponsorship or airfare, and lodging for attendees
2. Set up and attend a 30m meeting with the Head of Marketing and CEO:
  - First during this meeting, the Head of Marketing proposes an event issue for each of the **_current quarter's_** events to get input and any new information or changes from Fleet's CEO. (Events for the current quarter were already decided in a previous event strategy session, so Fleet does not make changes except in extreme circumstances.)
  - Next, decide which events in the **_following quarter_** the company will invest time or money into.  This includes any event that Fleet pays to send someone to or to sponsor, and even events where Fleet's only involvement is that a fleetie will be giving a talk or otherwise representing the brand.
  - Finally, qualify or disqualify any newly-entered event ideas by either verifying and setting the buying situation, or removing the event idea from the spreadsheet.


### Book an event

Fleet's Head of Marketing is responsible for booking events that Fleet has chosen to attend and/or sponsor. To book an event, complete the steps in each event issue. Contact the [🫧 Head of Marketing](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/marketing#team) as needed with any questions or blockers to booking an event.

> Note: The Marketing department [settles all event strategy](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/marketing#settle-event-strategy) prior to booking an event. 

<!-- TODO Create Article issue template and update this section of the handbook to reflect reality and add corresponding rituals to engineering.rituals.yml

### Create an article
Article creation begins with creation of an issue using the "Article request" template.

1. Create a [new GitHub issue for the :help-marketing board](https://github.com/fleetdm/confidential/issues/new?assignees=mikermcneil&labels=%3Ahelp-marketing=&template=1-custom-request.md&title=Article%20Idea%3A+_______________________) and select the "Event-preparation" template..
2. Move the issue into the "📃 Planned articles" column.

### Review ongoing articles
Check the "📃 Planned articles" column in [:help-marketing board](https://github.com/orgs/fleetdm/projects/65) and continue to work through steps in each event's issue.
-->


### Order SWAG

**To order T-shirts:**

  - Login to [Rush Order tees](https://www.rushordertees.com/my-account/login/) (saved in 1Password).
  - Choose Fleet logo design t-shirt under [my designs](https://www.rushordertees.com/my-account/designs/).
  - Order shirts based on the pre-determined number (~5% of total event attendees).
  - Submit the order. Ensure the address matches the expected receiving address.


**To order stickers:**

  - Login to [StickerMule](https://www.stickermule.com/) (saved in 1Password).
  - Find the [brand kit](https://www.stickermule.com/studio/brand-kits) after logging in.
  - Click on the "Fleet Device Management" brand kit and order pre-approved stickers from the templates.
  - Total sticker quantity should be ~10% of total event attendees.
  - Complete the checkout process. Ensure the address matches the expected receiving address.

**To order pens and sticky note pads**

  - Pens and sticky note pads are ordered through TODO.


### Monitor the help-create-contact channel

When Fleeties need a contact created in Fleet's CRM but are unable to do so in the moment, they'll send a message to the ["#help-create-contact" channel](https://fleetdm.slack.com/archives/C091MLXQKQV) in Slack. Use the following steps to add the profile to Fleet's CRM:
1. Add the `:eyes` emoji (👀) to the Slack thread. 
2. Log in to Salesforce and navigate to the contact tab, click "New".
3. Create the contact from research and the context left in the channel. If the account doesn't exist, then it will also need to be created and researched.
4. Add any additional context to the "Description" field. 
5. Once the contact and account exist in Salesforce, reply to the thread with the contact URL from Salesforce and add the `white-check-mark` emoji (✅) to indicate you're done.


### Process pending swag requests from the website

On a weekly basis, log in to [Printful](https://www.printful.com/) and complete any draft orders so that they are sent. We currently only ship within the 48 contiguous United States and approve one free order per household under normal circumstances.
To do this:
1. Go to the ["Orders"](https://www.printful.com/ca/dashboard/default/orders) page in Printful
2. Look for an order status of "Draft" and click that order.
3. Copy the address displayed in the draft order. Close the modal.
4. Under "Order list", there's a search box for customers that you will need to paste the address.
5. The results should only display one order. Any additional could be duplicate orders or those made in error.
6. Repeat this process until all remaining draft orders show "Waiting for Fulfillment"


### Request swag
There are many times in which community members, customers, and contributors are in need of some cool Fleet swag. To request swag:
1. [Create an issue](https://github.com/orgs/fleetdm/projects/65) on the :help-marketing board.
2. Provide order details (e.g. expected shirt size, name, and shipping details).
3. Decide if you'd like to include a personalized message and attach it to the issue.

### Fulfill a swag request

Swag requests are received in the form of issues and will be fulfilled based on availability. To process a swag request:
1. Check and communicate availability to the requestor.
2. Use the appropriate shipping method that best serves the company.
3. Attach tracking number to the issue and tag the requestor.
4. Confirm delivery and close issue.


### Send swag for community contributions to Fleet

- Reach out to the contributor to thank them for their contribution
- Consider sharing the contribution on social media
- Ask if we could send the contributor any swag
- If yes, follow the steps to fulfill a swag request.


### Engage with the community

Public conversations on social media create valuable opportunities for contributors to answer technical questions and collect feedback.

Here are some links that filter relevant conversations on each platform:
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/search/results/content/?datePosted=%22past-week%22&keywords=osquery%20OR%20%22fleet%20device%20management%22%20OR%20%22fleetdm%22%20OR%20%22github.com%2Ffleetdm%2Ffleet%22%20OR%20%22fleetdm.com%22&origin=FACETED_SEARCH&sid=oxR)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/search?q=%22osquery%22%20OR%20%22github.com%2Fosquery%2Fosquery%22%20OR%20%22github.com%2Ffleetdm%2Ffleet%22%20OR%20%22github.com%2Fkolide%2Ffleet%22%20OR%20%22fleetdm%22%20OR%20%22fleet%20device%20management%22%20OR%20%22nanomdm%22%20OR%20%22micromdm%22%20OR%20%22swiftDialog%22&src=typed_query&f=live)

1. Find conversations that are relevant to Fleet on both LinkedIn and Twitter
2. Reply to threads looking for solutions Fleet can solve with helpful information. If additional information is needed, find help in [#help-engineering](https://fleetdm.slack.com/archives/C019WG4GH0A) for accurate information.
3. Leave a like on threads and posts that are interesting, cool, celebratory, funny, etc. within our communities.
4. If a post is helpful to our audience, reshare it.


### Upload to YouTube

Fleet regularly uploads a variety of content to YouTube such as podcast episodes, sprint demos, educational updates, design reviews, and more.

- Login to the Fleet YouTube channel, click the create button and then upload the video.
- Fill out relevant information such as title, description, thumbnail, playlists, audience, and [tags](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Mu-XTkgJjqvPqpM1O0fiz97druAEJiYnr3OI4n6HtAA/edit?usp=sharing).
- Create a new video thumbnail within Figma in the [YouTube covers board](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Mu-XTkgJjqvPqpM1O0fiz97druAEJiYnr3OI4n6HtAA/edit?usp=sharing) with the video Title.
- Set the visibility to "Public"
- Share video link on social media


### Create a podcast episode

Fleet invites guests to discuss the future of IT and security on the [ExpedITioners podcast](https://expeditioners.podbean.com/) to be shared with the community,

- Find the new episode in the [Fleet drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1v2sBswrqaayxRTfqoDDZBhz0xViqoNbC?usp=drive_link).
- Combine audio from the guest and speaker together in Garageband with the [jingle and introduction](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1Av8yAgkKo22nYOeFJyXXEHtpyX9tETIH).
- Listen to the episode and note talking points, title, and links mentioned in the [show notes doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1quyiYWm7rZSGTobJbE4vFlZwT3nlutZG5e5u6fZ3Y_4/edit?usp=sharing).
- Upload the audio file to the [episode folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1v2sBswrqaayxRTfqoDDZBhz0xViqoNbC) 
- Create episode cover and sharable image in [Figma](https://www.figma.com/file/1J2yxqH8Q7u8V7YTtA1iej/Social-media-(logos%2C-covers%2C-banners)?type=design&node-id=1711-84364&mode=design&t=mm5L76TMiRV4yUIA-0)
- Log in to [Podbean](https://www.podbean.com/user-z61jYLi85TV2) to manage the podcast and click new episode.
- Use the show notes to complete the Podbean description and [create a new article](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/tree/main/articles) on Fleet's website.
- Publish on social media


## Rituals

<rituals :rituals="rituals['handbook/marketing/marketing.rituals.yml']"></rituals>


#### Stubs
The following stubs are included only to make links backward compatible

##### Programs
Please see [handbook/company/communications#product-marketing-programs](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#product-marketing-programs)

##### Social media
Please see [handbook/company/communications#social-media](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#social-media)

##### Ads
Please see [handbook/company/communications#ads](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#ads)

##### Events
Please see [handbook/company/communications#events](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#events)

##### Video
Please see [handbook/company/communications#video](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#video)





<meta name="maintainedBy" value="sampfluger88">
<meta name="title" value="🫧 Marketing">

Commit message:

Reorg and refocus
<ins>*🌐 IT and Enablement:*</ins>
- Rename "🌐 Digital Experience" to "🌐 IT and Enablement" dept
- Rename "digital-experience.rituals.yml" to "it-and-enablement.rituals.yml"

<ins>*🧑‍🚀 People*</ins>
- Create 🧑‍🚀 People dept
  - Create "people.rituals.yml"

<ins>*🔭 CEO*</ins> (<= WHY? To maintain the [structure of the handbook](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/leadership#outline-of-departmental-page-structure).)
- Create 🔭 CEO page and link to leadership
- Create ceo.rituals.yml

<ins>*💸 Finance*</ins>
- Renamed label "#g-finance" to ":help-finance" to match the rest of the departmental labels.

handbook/marketing/README.md, after:

# Marketing

This handbook page details processes specific to working [with](#contact-us) and [within](#responsibilities) this department.


## Team

| Role                               | Contributor(s)
|:-----------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Interim Head of Marketing         | [Mike McNeil](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mikermcneil) _([@mikermcneil](https://github.com/mikermcneil))_


## Contact us

- To **make a request** of the Marketing department, [create an issue](https://github.com/fleetdm/confidential/issues/new?assignees=&labels=%3Ahelp-marketing&projects=&template=1-custom-request.md&title=Request%3A+_______________________) and a team member will get back to you within one business day (If urgent, at-mention a [team member](#team) in the [:help-marketing](https://fleetdm.slack.com/archives/C01ALP02RB5) Slack channel).
  - Please use **issue comments and GitHub mentions** to communicate follow-ups or answer questions related to your request.
  - Any Fleet team member can [view the kanban board](https://github.com/orgs/fleetdm/projects/94) for this department, including pending tasks and the status of new requests.

> To **make a request** related to **product marketing**, **brand**, **press**, **brandfronts**, **pitchfronts**, **featurefronts**, **ideal customer profiles (ICPs)**, **personas**, or **targeting** [create an issue](https://github.com/fleetdm/confidential/issues/new?assignees=&labels=%3Ahelp-it-and-enablement&projects=&template=1-custom-request.md&title=Product%20marketing%20request%3A+_______________________) (If urgent, at-mention the [CEO](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/ceo#team) in the [#help-leadership](https://fleetdm.slack.com/archives/C0600L1TTPY) Slack channel).


## Responsibilities

The Marketing department is directly responsible for achieving revenue pipeline targets, increasing awareness and interest in the open-source project, and nurturing the Fleet community through participation in video, sponsored events, and other [programs](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#programs).
For responsibilities and rituals directly responsible by an Account Development Representative (ADR), follow [this outline](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gdjvqE8KGUC1fSWMWgNz8kn_R2i_MBg9ZxNrpnI4zGY/edit?tab=t.0).


### Prepare "Let's get you set up!" meeting notes

Before each group call, copy the attendees from the "Lets get you set up! (group office hours)" calendar event and paste them into the correct section of the ["Let's get you set up!" meeting notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rlvueDlTqiz0cyH426nVL6LXpv9MWDUtXW6YiMT3oK8/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.l967l3n9mjnd), be sure to use the format listed in the doc.


### Refresh event calendar

Fleet's Head of Marketing is directly responsible for the accuracy of event locations, attendance dates, and CFP deadlines in the event strategy workbook.  At the end of every quarter, the Head of Marketing updates every event in the ["Event strategy workbook"](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1YQXAX2Q_WnGkAwMYjMbQpV3nbCj7gOBbv7Y0u4twxzQ/edit) (private Google doc) by following these steps:
1. Visit the latest website for each event.
2. Update the workbook with the latest location, dates, and CFP deadlines from the website.


### Begin or modify an advertising campaign

Any new ads or changes to current running ads are approved in ["🦢🗣 Design review (:help-design)"](https://github.com/orgs/fleetdm/projects/93).

To propose an ad, or a change to an ad:
1. Evaluate the buying situation before proposing any changes to ads. This determines the audience that will see each ad and which campaign it will be placed in. (Device management, vuln management, endpoint ops - security, endpoint ops - IT)
2. Experiment campaigns must follow the YYYY-MM-DD._{buying_situation}-{ad_name}_ format. (2024-01-12.mdm - Cross-platform MDM waitlist)
3. Image ads should follow the recommended size, centering, and asset guidelines. These are available on [Figma](https://www.figma.com/file/1J2yxqH8Q7u8V7YTtA1iej/Social-media-(logos%2C-covers%2C-banners)?type=design&node-id=2078-100840&mode=design&t=cHriEw2E7hLxgwuG-0).
4. Add your proposed ads to the ["🧫 Experiment review" agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1e2TFsV0JFFym7MvCUrJR1Wr2DVmqUgboKYFUXBEmCyI/edit#heading=h.kvp9pcc0kkq) (private Google doc) and attend the next episode.  During the meeting, existing ads will be compared against the newly proposed ads within the corresponding ad platform. ([Google Ads](https://ads.google.com/home/), [LinkedIn Campaign Manager](https://www.linkedin.com/campaignmanager/), etc.)
5. Make revisions and re-attend the meeting as needed until the planned change is executed.
7. Create a calendar reminder to check ad performance two weeks from the date changes were made.


### Measure intent signals

To measure and process intent signals, follow the steps in the [🦄⚡️🌐 Go-To-Market strategy doc (confidential)](https://github.com/fleetdm/confidential/edit/main/go-to-market-strategy.md#process-intent-signals).  


### Research an account

to research an account, follow the steps in the follow the steps in the [🦄⚡️🌐 Go-To-Market strategy doc (confidential)](https://github.com/fleetdm/confidential/edit/main/go-to-market-strategy.md#research-an-account) and move it toward sales-readiness **after** discovering [relevant intent signals](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/marketing#measure-intent-signals).


### Promote a post on LinkedIn

1. Create a classic campaign under ["Experiments"](https://www.linkedin.com/campaignmanager/accounts/509911695/campaigns?campaignGroupIds=%5B678398233%5D) following the YYYY-MM-DD.buying-situation - ad description with a goal of website visits or engagement to run for two weeks.
2. Choose the appropriate audience according to the buying situation and disable audience expansion and the LinkedIn audience network. 
3. When creating the ad for the new campaign, select "browse existing content" and find the post under the employee tab.
4. Launch campaign once approved.


### Settle content strategy

The Head of Marketing is the DRI for deploying Fleet's outward-facing content. The content schedule is settled significantly in advance to provide ample time for strategy and planning. Use the following steps to settle content strategy:

1. Using the [content calendar](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Hso0LxqwrRVINCyW_n436bNHmoqhoLhC8bcbvLPOs9A/edit?gid=809357993#gid=809357993), propose the content that Fleet will produce in the current quarter, and the strategy behind that content, including:
  - Release date: The date by which the content will be complete and finalized.
  - DRI: Person(s) responsible for the project management of this content.
  - Title (e.g. "Article: Fleet takes bacon to new heights with flying pigs release").
2. Attend a 30m meeting with Fleet's Client Platform Engineer & Community Advocate, CTO, and CEO to review and settle the proposed content.


### Settle event strategy

 Fleet's [Head of Marketing](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/marketing#team) is the DRI for executing Fleet events efficiently, on-brand, and on-strategy within Fleet's event budget. Events are settled significantly in advance to provide ample time for strategy and planning.  

1. Using the [event strategy workbook](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1YQXAX2Q_WnGkAwMYjMbQpV3nbCj7gOBbv7Y0u4twxzQ/edit#gid=1411322737), propose the events that Fleet will attend in the next 6 months, and the strategy for those events, including:
  - target buying situation of the audience
  - who from Fleet will attend
  - the training plan for Fleet attendees
  - which talk proposal Fleet will submit
  - all event materials, including printouts, banners, swag given out, and even the clothing worn by fleeties
  - estimated budget, including sponsorship or airfare, and lodging for attendees
2. Set up and attend a 30m meeting with the Head of Marketing and CEO:
  - First during this meeting, the Head of Marketing proposes an event issue for each of the **_current quarter's_** events to get input and any new information or changes from Fleet's CEO. (Events for the current quarter were already decided in a previous event strategy session, so Fleet does not make changes except in extreme circumstances.)
  - Next, decide which events in the **_following quarter_** the company will invest time or money into.  This includes any event that Fleet pays to send someone to or to sponsor, and even events where Fleet's only involvement is that a fleetie will be giving a talk or otherwise representing the brand.
  - Finally, qualify or disqualify any newly-entered event ideas by either verifying and setting the buying situation, or removing the event idea from the spreadsheet.


### Book an event

Fleet's Head of Marketing is responsible for booking events that Fleet has chosen to attend and/or sponsor. To book an event, complete the steps in each event issue. Contact the [🫧 Head of Marketing](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/marketing#team) as needed with any questions or blockers to booking an event.

> Note: The Marketing department [settles all event strategy](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/marketing#settle-event-strategy) prior to booking an event. 

<!-- TODO Create Article issue template and update this section of the handbook to reflect reality and add corresponding rituals to engineering.rituals.yml

### Create an article
Article creation begins with creation of an issue using the "Article request" template.

1. Create a [new GitHub issue for the :help-marketing board](https://github.com/fleetdm/confidential/issues/new?assignees=mikermcneil&labels=%3Ahelp-marketing=&template=1-custom-request.md&title=Article%20Idea%3A+_______________________) and select the "Event-preparation" template..
2. Move the issue into the "📃 Planned articles" column.

### Review ongoing articles
Check the "📃 Planned articles" column in [:help-marketing board](https://github.com/orgs/fleetdm/projects/65) and continue to work through steps in each event's issue.
-->


### Order SWAG

**To order T-shirts:**

  - Login to [Rush Order tees](https://www.rushordertees.com/my-account/login/) (saved in 1Password).
  - Choose Fleet logo design t-shirt under [my designs](https://www.rushordertees.com/my-account/designs/).
  - Order shirts based on the pre-determined number (~5% of total event attendees).
  - Submit the order. Ensure the address matches the expected receiving address.


**To order stickers:**

  - Login to [StickerMule](https://www.stickermule.com/) (saved in 1Password).
  - Find the [brand kit](https://www.stickermule.com/studio/brand-kits) after logging in.
  - Click on the "Fleet Device Management" brand kit and order pre-approved stickers from the templates.
  - Total sticker quantity should be ~10% of total event attendees.
  - Complete the checkout process. Ensure the address matches the expected receiving address.

**To order pens and sticky note pads**

  - Pens and sticky note pads are ordered through TODO.


### Monitor the help-create-contact channel

When Fleeties need a contact created in Fleet's CRM but are unable to do so in the moment, they'll send a message to the ["#help-create-contact" channel](https://fleetdm.slack.com/archives/C091MLXQKQV) in Slack. Use the following steps to add the profile to Fleet's CRM:
1. Add the `:eyes` emoji (👀) to the Slack thread. 
2. Log in to Salesforce and navigate to the contact tab, click "New".
3. Create the contact from research and the context left in the channel. If the account doesn't exist, then it will also need to be created and researched.
4. Add any additional context to the "Description" field. 
5. Once the contact and account exist in Salesforce, reply to the thread with the contact URL from Salesforce and add the `white-check-mark` emoji (✅) to indicate you're done.


### Process pending swag requests from the website

On a weekly basis, log in to [Printful](https://www.printful.com/) and complete any draft orders so that they are sent. We currently only ship within the 48 contiguous United States and approve one free order per household under normal circumstances.
To do this:
1. Go to the ["Orders"](https://www.printful.com/ca/dashboard/default/orders) page in Printful
2. Look for an order status of "Draft" and click that order.
3. Copy the address displayed in the draft order. Close the modal.
4. Under "Order list", there's a search box for customers that you will need to paste the address.
5. The results should only display one order. Any additional could be duplicate orders or those made in error.
6. Repeat this process until all remaining draft orders show "Waiting for Fulfillment"


### Request swag
There are many times in which community members, customers, and contributors are in need of some cool Fleet swag. To request swag:
1. [Create an issue](https://github.com/orgs/fleetdm/projects/65) on the :help-marketing board.
2. Provide order details (e.g. expected shirt size, name, and shipping details).
3. Decide if you'd like to include a personalized message and attach it to the issue.

### Fulfill a swag request

Swag requests are received in the form of issues and will be fulfilled based on availability. To process a swag request:
1. Check and communicate availability to the requestor.
2. Use the appropriate shipping method that best serves the company.
3. Attach tracking number to the issue and tag the requestor.
4. Confirm delivery and close issue.


### Send swag for community contributions to Fleet

- Reach out to the contributor to thank them for their contribution
- Consider sharing the contribution on social media
- Ask if we could send the contributor any swag
- If yes, follow the steps to fulfill a swag request.


### Engage with the community

Public conversations on social media create valuable opportunities for contributors to answer technical questions and collect feedback.

Here are some links that filter relevant conversations on each platform:
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/search/results/content/?datePosted=%22past-week%22&keywords=osquery%20OR%20%22fleet%20device%20management%22%20OR%20%22fleetdm%22%20OR%20%22github.com%2Ffleetdm%2Ffleet%22%20OR%20%22fleetdm.com%22&origin=FACETED_SEARCH&sid=oxR)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/search?q=%22osquery%22%20OR%20%22github.com%2Fosquery%2Fosquery%22%20OR%20%22github.com%2Ffleetdm%2Ffleet%22%20OR%20%22github.com%2Fkolide%2Ffleet%22%20OR%20%22fleetdm%22%20OR%20%22fleet%20device%20management%22%20OR%20%22nanomdm%22%20OR%20%22micromdm%22%20OR%20%22swiftDialog%22&src=typed_query&f=live)

1. Find conversations that are relevant to Fleet on both LinkedIn and Twitter
2. Reply to threads looking for solutions Fleet can solve with helpful information. If additional information is needed, find help in [#help-engineering](https://fleetdm.slack.com/archives/C019WG4GH0A) for accurate information.
3. Leave a like on threads and posts that are interesting, cool, celebratory, funny, etc. within our communities.
4. If a post is helpful to our audience, reshare it.


### Upload to YouTube

Fleet regularly uploads a variety of content to YouTube such as podcast episodes, sprint demos, educational updates, design reviews, and more.

- Login to the Fleet YouTube channel, click the create button and then upload the video.
- Fill out relevant information such as title, description, thumbnail, playlists, audience, and [tags](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Mu-XTkgJjqvPqpM1O0fiz97druAEJiYnr3OI4n6HtAA/edit?usp=sharing).
- Create a new video thumbnail within Figma in the [YouTube covers board](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Mu-XTkgJjqvPqpM1O0fiz97druAEJiYnr3OI4n6HtAA/edit?usp=sharing) with the video Title.
- Set the visibility to "Public"
- Share video link on social media


### Create a podcast episode

Fleet invites guests to discuss the future of IT and security on the [ExpedITioners podcast](https://expeditioners.podbean.com/) to be shared with the community,

- Find the new episode in the [Fleet drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1v2sBswrqaayxRTfqoDDZBhz0xViqoNbC?usp=drive_link).
- Combine audio from the guest and speaker together in Garageband with the [jingle and introduction](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1Av8yAgkKo22nYOeFJyXXEHtpyX9tETIH).
- Listen to the episode and note talking points, title, and links mentioned in the [show notes doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1quyiYWm7rZSGTobJbE4vFlZwT3nlutZG5e5u6fZ3Y_4/edit?usp=sharing).
- Upload the audio file to the [episode folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1v2sBswrqaayxRTfqoDDZBhz0xViqoNbC) 
- Create episode cover and sharable image in [Figma](https://www.figma.com/file/1J2yxqH8Q7u8V7YTtA1iej/Social-media-(logos%2C-covers%2C-banners)?type=design&node-id=1711-84364&mode=design&t=mm5L76TMiRV4yUIA-0)
- Log in to [Podbean](https://www.podbean.com/user-z61jYLi85TV2) to manage the podcast and click new episode.
- Use the show notes to complete the Podbean description and [create a new article](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/tree/main/articles) on Fleet's website.
- Publish on social media


## Rituals

<rituals :rituals="rituals['handbook/marketing/marketing.rituals.yml']"></rituals>


#### Stubs
The following stubs are included only to make links backward compatible

##### Programs
Please see [handbook/company/communications#product-marketing-programs](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#product-marketing-programs)

##### Social media
Please see [handbook/company/communications#social-media](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#social-media)

##### Ads
Please see [handbook/company/communications#ads](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#ads)

##### Events
Please see [handbook/company/communications#events](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#events)

##### Video
Please see [handbook/company/communications#video](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#video)





<meta name="maintainedBy" value="sampfluger88">
<meta name="title" value="🫧 Marketing">
