website/generators/landing-page/README.md, before:

# @eashaw/sails-generate-landing-page

A `landing-page` generator for use with the Sails command-line interface.


## Usage

```bash
$ sails generate landing-page 
```


## Need help?

See [Extending Sails > Generators > Custom Generators](https://sailsjs.com/docs/concepts/extending-sails/generators/custom-generators) in the [Sails documentation](https://sailsjs.com/documentation), or check out [recommended support options](https://sailsjs.com/support).

<a href="https://sailsjs.com" target="_blank" title="Node.js framework for building realtime APIs."><img src="https://github-camo.global.ssl.fastly.net/9e49073459ed4e0e2687b80eaf515d87b0da4a6b/687474703a2f2f62616c64657264617368792e6769746875622e696f2f7361696c732f696d616765732f6c6f676f2e706e67" width=60 alt="Sails.js logo (small)"/></a>


## Bugs 

To report a bug, [click here](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/issues/new).


## Contributing

Anyone can contribute.

## License

This landing-page generator is available under the **MIT license**.

The [Sails framework](https://sailsjs.com) is free and open-source under the [MIT License](https://sailsjs.com/license).


![image_squidhome@2x.png](http://i.imgur.com/RIvu9.png)

Commit message:

Clean up "click here" and "here" link anchors - part 1 (#29731)
Fixes part of #29720.. Includes promoting some bolded to subheadings (in
wireframe docs).

---------

Co-authored-by: Sam Pfluger <108141731+Sampfluger88@users.noreply.github.com>

website/generators/landing-page/README.md, after:

# @eashaw/sails-generate-landing-page

A `landing-page` generator for use with the Sails command-line interface.


## Usage

```bash
$ sails generate landing-page
```


## Need help?

See [Extending Sails > Generators > Custom Generators](https://sailsjs.com/docs/concepts/extending-sails/generators/custom-generators) in the [Sails documentation](https://sailsjs.com/documentation), or check out [recommended support options](https://sailsjs.com/support).

<a href="https://sailsjs.com" target="_blank" title="Node.js framework for building realtime APIs."><img src="https://github-camo.global.ssl.fastly.net/9e49073459ed4e0e2687b80eaf515d87b0da4a6b/687474703a2f2f62616c64657264617368792e6769746875622e696f2f7361696c732f696d616765732f6c6f676f2e706e67" width=60 alt="Sails.js logo (small)"/></a>


## Bugs

To report a bug, [create an issue in the `fleet` GitHub repository](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/issues/new).


## Contributing

Anyone can contribute.

## License

This landing-page generator is available under the **MIT license**.

The [Sails framework](https://sailsjs.com) is free and open-source under the [MIT License](https://sailsjs.com/license).


![image_squidhome@2x.png](http://i.imgur.com/RIvu9.png)
