# MDM addon

Notice: Previous versions of this module referred to `dep`, but to reduce confusion that has been replaces with `abm`
to mach the change to the newer Apple Busines Manager.  For each key/value pair below, the key names have been changed
from previous version to match the name of the env var for easier usability.  Older unused env vars were also removed
for simplification.  This includes removing the need for `extra_environment_variables` completely.

This addon enables MDM functionality for Fleet. It does this via several secrets in AWS that stores the necessary values.
The following secrets are created:
- abm
- scep
- apn

Note: ABM is optional.  If Apple Business Manager (ABM) is not used, set the abm variable to `null` and it will be omitted.

Since this module cannot determine the value for the secrets at apply time, this module must be applied in 2 phases:

1. In the first phase, just add the module without passing additional config to the main Fleet module
1. In the second phase, after the secret values have been populated, apply while also passing the additional config to the main Fleet module.

The secrets should have the following layouts, note that all values are strings. If a value is a JSON object, string escape it.:
## ABM
```
{
    "FLEET_MDM_APPLE_BM_CERT_BYTES": <ABM cert>,
    "FLEET_MDM_APPLE_BM_KEY_BYTES": <ABM key>,
    "FLEET_MDM_APPLE_BM_SERVER_TOKEN_BYTES": <ABM p7m token>
}
```

## SCEP
```
{
    "FLEET_MDM_APPLE_SCEP_CERT_BYTES": <SCEP cert>,
    "FLEET_MDM_APPLE_SCEP_KEY_BYTES": <SCEP key>,
    "FLEET_MDM_APPLE_SCEP_CHALLENGE": <SCEP challenge>
}
```

Please note that for Windows, the same SCEP cert is used and the cert+key above will populate the following environment variables:
```
    "FLEET_MDM_WINDOWS_WSTEP_IDENTITY_CERT_BYTES"
    "FLEET_MDM_WINDOWS_WSTEP_IDENTITY_KEY_BYTES"
```
## APN
```
{
    "FLEET_MDM_APPLE_APNS_CERT_BYTES": <APNS cert>,
    "FLEET_MDM_APPLE_APNS_KEY_BYTES ": <APNS key>
}
```
