handbook/company/README.md, before:

# Company

## Purpose

Fleet is an [open-core company](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way#why-open-source) that sells subscriptions that offer [more features and support](https://fleetdm.com/pricing) for Fleet and osquery, the leading open-source systems management platform and security agent. Today, Fleet enrolls millions of laptops and servers, and it is especially popular with [enterprise IT and security teams](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7120880290859728897/).

Fleet is dedicated to a comprehensive strategy against [whatever this is](https://chat.openai.com/share/e44ba6f3-b3ed-488a-a15e-a5a723f20c98): 

- 🔌 making security and IT interoperable and easy to automate with open standards and data.
- 🚪 creating an inviting (outsider-friendly) way to manage computers, CVEs, and infrastructure.
- 🪟 building clarity and trust through open-source software.

This is the guiding purpose behind Fleet's [product strategy](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#strategy), [operating principles](#why-this-way), and [brand](https://fleetdm.com/logos).

<!--
With great power
comes great openness
With agents comes agency
Lighter than air
Light in every corner
Open by design
-->

## Culture

### All remote
Fleet Device Management Inc. is an all-remote company with 60+ team members spread across four continents and nine time zones.  The broader team of contributors [worldwide](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/graphs/contributors) submits patches, bug reports, troubleshooting tips, improvements, and real-world insights to Fleet's open-source code base, documentation, website, and [company handbook](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way#why-handbook-first-strategy).

### Open source
Fleet is open by design.  The majority of the code, documentation, and content we create at Fleet is public and [source-available](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way#why-open-source).  The Fleet handbook is the central guide for how we run the company, and even it is open to the world.  We [strive to be open](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company#openness) and transparent in the way we run the business, as much as [confidentiality](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#levels-of-confidentiality) agreements (and time) allow. We perform better with an audience, and our audience performs better with us.

### Why this way?
At Fleet, we write things down.  Even when we might be wrong.  This helps us move quickly, provides clarity, and enables asynchronous work.  The "Why this way?" page in the handbook discusses some of our most important decisions about the best way to work and the reasoning for them.  For example: _"Why open source?"_, _"Why do we use a wireframe-first approach?"_, _"Why direct responsibility?_, and _"Why handbook-first strategy?"_  You can read more about these principles and suggest improvements in ["📖Company/Why this way?"](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way)

> You can read more about what it's like to work at Fleet in ["📖Company/Communications"](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications).


## Open positions


<open-positions :open-positions="openPositions"></open-positions>


### Is it any good?

Here are a few reasons to work at Fleet:
- Work from anywhere with good internet. ([We're 100% remote](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/remote-work-how-set-boundaries-when-office-your-house-lora-vaughn/), No office. No commute.) Everyone works remote, but you don't feel remote. There is no 'headquarters'. You are free to travel and move.  Organize your workday to [fit your lifestyle](https://mikesolin.com/2023/08/05/finding-balance-while-working-remotely/).  Take breaks.  Go to the dentist.
- Fleet can offer you a competitive salary, significant equity, and an independent, outsider-friendly culture. Work with helpful, kind, and motivated people who know what they're doing.
- At Fleet, we value focus, iteration, and meaningful results – not [60 hour work weeks](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company#results). We are non-judgmental and laser-focused on growing the company.
- Work closely with experienced, well-funded founders and a great team, including the people who created osquery and Sails. We care about openness and transparency.
- Work computers can be private and safe. Help make endpoint monitoring less intrusive and more transparent.
- Protect the production servers and employee laptops of Earth's largest companies. Work on a product used by lots of people who care about what you do.
- Fleet is growing quickly, with significant revenue from Fortune 1000 customers. You will have lots of opportunities to make decisions, learn, and try new things.


## Values

Fleet's values are a set of five ideals adopted by everyone on the team. They describe the shared mindset we are working together to create, inside and outside the company: [🔴 Empathy](#empathy), [🟠 Ownership](#ownership), [🟢 Results](#results), [🔵 Objectivity](#objectivity), and [🟣 Openness](#openness).

Values play an important role in hiring, performance management, and compensation decisions.  When a new team member joins the company, they adopt our values, from day one.

This way, everybody knows what to expect from the people they work with.


### 🔴 Empathy
Empathy leads to smarter decisions.  Take an interest in what people are going through, so you can help make it better.

- **Assume positive intent.** Think and say [positive things](https://www.theatlantic.com/family/archive/2018/06/mr-rogers-neighborhood-talking-to-kids/562352/), and [assume](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/values/#assume-positive-intent) others are doing the same.  Keep it light.
- **Be a helper.** Take care of customers first. But give hospitality and [service with a smile](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fred_Rogers#Legacy) to everyone you can.
- **Read what you write.**  [Shorten](http://www.paulgraham.com/writing44.html) it. [Repeat](http://www.paulgraham.com/useful.html). <!-- Read it again, in context. Read it out loud.  Role play. Put yourself in the reader’s shoes.  Be clear and interesting. Write stuff worth reading.   Is ALL of it worth reading?  Roleplay. Use your imagination to see situations from different perspectives. -->
- **Get curious.**  Wonder about things. Notice. Ask people genuine questions, and listen closely.

### 🟠 Ownership
It takes a fully-activated mind to achieve ambitious goals, and remote work requires self-discipline.  Think like an owner of the company.

- **Be reliable.**  Reply quickly to email, Slack, and GitHub.  Prepare for meetings.  Arrive [on time](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#meetings).  Use handbooked [processes](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/leadership/#process-gets-a-bad-rep) and [decisions](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way#why-this-way).
- **Finish what you start.** Follow through on commitments.  Take responsibility for mistakes.  There's no time for finger-pointing.  [Just fix it](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/values/#bias-for-action).
- **No one is coming.** Take care of [things that need doing](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#spending-company-money), or loop in [the right people](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way#why-direct-responsibility) fast. It's up to you.  <!-- take initiative -->
- **Think long term.** Contribute to [the big picture](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company#purpose), beyond your department's goals. Reduce maintenance.  Beware the thicket.  <!-- Think [7 years ahead](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company#strategy). -->

### 🟢 Results
We work to get results. How we work determines what we get.  Aim to deliver results daily.

- **Iterate.** [Look for ways](https://youtu.be/BW6TWwNZzIQ) to make [smaller changes](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/product/product-principles/#the-minimal-viable-change-mvc), more often.  Always publish. <!-- Resist [gold plating](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gold_plating_(project_management)). -->
- **Start quickly.** Be 70% sure.  Resist [bike-shedding](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Law_of_triviality).  Between overthinking and rushing, there is a [golden mean](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Golden_mean_%28philosophy%29). <!-- [Satisfice](https://longform.asmartbear.com/maximizing) before optimizing. -->
- **Keep it simple.** [Spend less](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way#why-spend-less). Avoid preemptive structure.  Choose ["boring solutions"](https://about.gitlab.com/blog/2020/08/18/boring-solutions-faster-iteration/). Reuse systems. Avoid adding steps, especially handoffs. <!-- Be efficient. Avoid creating multiple ways to do the same thing.  Practicality over sophistication. -->
- **Be realistic.** Focus on one task at a time.  Resist [the urge to commit](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/37signals_the-problem-with-commitments-is-that-they-ugcPost-7252753513485619201-PdAw?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_ios) to every good idea.  Work [hard](https://paulgraham.com/hwh.html).  Schedule [time off](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#paid-time-off) to recharge. <!-- Practice self-care. -->

### 🔵 Objectivity
To reach our goals, we need to [see reality clearly](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intellectual_honesty).

- **Find the bottleneck.** When something isn't working, look for the worst part. 
 [Fix that first](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theory_of_constraints).
- **Change your mind.**  [Be willing to reconsider](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/values/#articulate-when-you-change-your-mind) in the face of new evidence. Escape the [sunk cost fallacy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sunk_cost).
- **Be rigorous.** A lucky streak can do more harm than good.  Understand why it works first.  Change one variable at a time. <!--  Certainty is overrated. Be a skeptic. Cultivate doubt. Interrogate luck. Check your assumptions.  “Fixes” are fleeting.  Don't say "just do XYZ".  Use [the scientific method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Empirical_research). The road to failure is paved with ["happy paths"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Happy_path). -->
- **Think for yourself.** Remember how often [conventional wisdom](http://www.paulgraham.com/think.html) isn't.  <!-- Use first principles thinking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ab_initio#Science_and_engineering) -->

### 🟣 Openness
Take the time to make [yourself](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#meetings) and [your work](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way#why-make-work-visible) visible.  This also takes courage.

- **Write it down.** Let people [find](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/values/#findability) and [reproduce](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/values/#reproducibility) your [decisions](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way#why-handbook-first-strategy).  Remove outdated content so your writing is trustworthy, and [write simply](http://www.paulgraham.com/simply.html) so it is outsider friendly.
- **Have short toes.** Everyone can contribute.  Get comfortable with [others contributing to your work](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/values/#short-toes).
- **Public by default.** Everything we do is [public by default](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way#why-open-source). Redact [non-public info](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#levels-of-confidentiality) carefully.
- **Speak freely.** Interrupt and be interrupted.  Give pointed and respectful feedback, even [when you disagree](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way#why-this-way). 

<!--
### 🪩 Dumb luck

Ever wonder why there are 6 circles in the Fleet logo, but only 5 values?  Behold, the sixth value: dumb luck.

-->

## History

### 2014: Origins of osquery
In 2014, our cofounder Zach Wasserman, together with [Mike Arpaia](https://twitter.com/mikearpaia/status/1357455391588839424) and the rest of their team at Facebook, created an open source project called [osquery](https://osquery.io).

### 2016: Origins of Fleet v1.0
A few years later, Zach, Mike Arpaia, and [Jason Meller](https://honest.security) founded [Kolide](https://kolide.com) and created Fleet: an open source platform that made it easier and more productive to use osquery in an enterprise setting.

### 2019: The growing community
When Kolide's attention shifted away from Fleet, and towards their separate, user-focused SaaS offering, the Fleet community [took over maintenance](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/press/press-release/the-linux-foundation-announces-intent-to-form-new-foundation-to-support-osquery-community) of the open-source project. After his time at Kolide, Zach continued as lead maintainer of Fleet.  He spent 2019 consulting and working with the growing open source community to support and extend the capabilities of the Fleet platform.

### 2020: Fleet was incorporated
Zach partnered with our [CEO, Mike McNeil](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/leadership#ceo-flaws), to found a new, independent company: Fleet Device Management Inc.  In November 2020, we [announced](https://medium.com/fleetdm/a-new-fleet-d4096c7de978) the transition and kicked off the logistics of moving the GitHub repository.

### 2022: Millions of hosts
Fleet raised its Series A funding round.  The world now has at least 1.65 million computers and virtual hosts enrolled in Fleet, including enterprises, governments, startups, families, and hobbyist racks all over the world.

### 2023: Your last MDM migration
Fleet added support for [scripting and management capabilities](https://fleetdm.com/announcements/fleet-introduces-windows-mdm) on macOS, Windows, _and_ Linux devices, allowing IT departments to manage devices more consistently using modern tooling and best practices.  This allowed many customers to simplify their management practices.  In several cases, Fleet was also able to save customers several hundreds of thousands of dollars (USD) by cutting tool overlap across platforms such as Jamf, Airwatch, Intune, MobileIron, Nexthink, Tanium, Uptycs, and Rapid7.

### 2024: Fleet is growing globally 
Fleet has expanded into 90+ countries, with 100+ customers and 2.24 million computers and virtual hosts enrolled (including the world's most powerful computers). 

<!-- 2024: and implement "zero trust" faster -->

> Still curious? Check out this [visualization of the Fleet repo over the years](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7045068060168220672/) or listen to this [conversation between Zach and Mike Arpaia about the origin story of osquery](https://fleetdm.com/podcasts/the-future-of-device-management-ep1).

## Org chart
To provide clarity about decision-making, [responsibility](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way#why-direct-responsibility), and resources, everyone at Fleet has a manager, and [every manager](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/leadership) has direct reports.  Fleet's organizational chart is accessible company-wide as a sub-tab in ["🧑‍🚀 Fleeties" (private google doc)](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1OSLn-ZCbGSjPusHPiR5dwQhheH1K8-xqyZdsOe9y7qc/edit#gid=0).  On the other sub-tabs, you can also check out a world map of where everyone is located, hiring stats, and fun facts about each team member.

- 🚀 [Engineering](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/engineering): The Engineering department at Fleet is directly responsible for writing and maintaining the code for Fleet's core product, as well as Fleet's Information technology (IT) infrastructure.
- 🦢 [Product Design](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/product-design): The Product Design department is directly responsible for defining and prioritizing the changes made to the core product, Fleet API, and reference documentation.
- 🌦️ [Customer Success](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/customer-success): The customer success department is directly responsible for ensuring that customers and community members of Fleet achieve their desired outcomes with Fleet products and services.
- 🫧 [Marketing](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/marketing): The Marketing department is directly responsible for growing awareness of Fleet and nurturing the community through participation in events, conversations, and other programs.
- 💸 [Finance](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/finance): The Finance department is directly responsible for accounts receivable including invoicing, accounts payable including commision calculations, expense reporting including Brex memos and maintaining accurate spend projections in "🧮The numbers", sales taxes, payroll taxes, corporate income/franchise taxes, and financial operations including bank accounts and cash flow management.
- 🐋 [Sales](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/sales): The Sales department is directly responsible for attaining the revenue goals of Fleet and helping customers deliver on their objectives.
- 🌐 [Digital Experience](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/digital-experience): The Digital Experience department is directly responsible for the culture, training, framework, content design, and technology behind Fleet's remote work culture, including fleetdm.com, the handbook, issue templates, UI style guides, internal tooling, Zapier flows, Docusign templates, key spreadsheets, contracts, compliance, receiving and responding to legal notices, SOC2, deal desk, project management processes, human resources, benefits, opening positions, compensation planning, onboarding, and offboarding.


## Advisors
While most improvements at Fleet are driven by informal conversations with customers and open-source contributors, the company also has a few dozen advisors and investors, including  
[Sid](https://about.gitlab.com/blog/2022/10/14/one-third-of-what-we-learned-about-ipos-in-taking-gitlab-public/) [Sijbrandij](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/ceo/#sijbrandij-pronunciation-hint) _(GitLab)_, [Dylan Field](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dylan_Field) _(Figma)_, [Mike Arpaia](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zfCak2UIOD8) _(osquery)_, [Alexandr Wang](https://www.businessofbusiness.com/articles/scale-ai-machine-learning-startup-alexandr-wang/) _(Scale AI)_, [Sanjay](https://www.zdnet.com/article/vmware-buys-airwatch-for-1-54-billion-acquires-mobility-strategy/) [Poonen](https://www.businessinsider.com/vmware-carbon-black-acquisition-sanjay-poonen-cybersecurity-2019-10?op=1) _(VMware, Cohesity)_, and [other smart people who are eager to help](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/15knBE2-PrQ1Ad-QcIk0mxCN-xFsATKK9hcifqrm0qFQ/edit).  If you have a question for one of them, Fleet's CEO is happy to introduce you.  ([Just ask](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/leadership#contact-the-ceo).)


<meta name="maintainedBy" value="mikermcneil">
<meta name="title" value="🔭 Company">

Commit message:

Reorg and refocus
<ins>*🌐 IT and Enablement:*</ins>
- Rename "🌐 Digital Experience" to "🌐 IT and Enablement" dept
- Rename "digital-experience.rituals.yml" to "it-and-enablement.rituals.yml"

<ins>*🧑‍🚀 People*</ins>
- Create 🧑‍🚀 People dept
  - Create "people.rituals.yml"

<ins>*🔭 CEO*</ins> (<= WHY? To maintain the [structure of the handbook](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/leadership#outline-of-departmental-page-structure).)
- Create 🔭 CEO page and link to leadership
- Create ceo.rituals.yml

<ins>*💸 Finance*</ins>
- Renamed label "#g-finance" to ":help-finance" to match the rest of the departmental labels.

handbook/company/README.md, after:

# Company

## Purpose

Fleet is an [open-core company](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way#why-open-source) that sells subscriptions that offer [more features and support](https://fleetdm.com/pricing) for Fleet and osquery, the leading open-source systems management platform and security agent. Today, Fleet enrolls millions of laptops and servers, and it is especially popular with [enterprise IT and security teams](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7120880290859728897/).

Fleet is dedicated to a comprehensive strategy against [whatever this is](https://chat.openai.com/share/e44ba6f3-b3ed-488a-a15e-a5a723f20c98): 

- 🔌 making security and IT interoperable and easy to automate with open standards and data.
- 🚪 creating an inviting (outsider-friendly) way to manage computers, CVEs, and infrastructure.
- 🪟 building clarity and trust through open-source software.

This is the guiding purpose behind Fleet's [product strategy](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#strategy), [operating principles](#why-this-way), and [brand](https://fleetdm.com/logos).

<!--
With great power
comes great openness
With agents comes agency
Lighter than air
Light in every corner
Open by design
-->

## Culture

### All remote
Fleet Device Management Inc. is an all-remote company with 60+ team members spread across four continents and nine time zones.  The broader team of contributors [worldwide](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/graphs/contributors) submits patches, bug reports, troubleshooting tips, improvements, and real-world insights to Fleet's open-source code base, documentation, website, and [company handbook](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way#why-handbook-first-strategy).

### Open source
Fleet is open by design.  The majority of the code, documentation, and content we create at Fleet is public and [source-available](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way#why-open-source).  The Fleet handbook is the central guide for how we run the company, and even it is open to the world.  We [strive to be open](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company#openness) and transparent in the way we run the business, as much as [confidentiality](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#levels-of-confidentiality) agreements (and time) allow. We perform better with an audience, and our audience performs better with us.

### Why this way?
At Fleet, we write things down.  Even when we might be wrong.  This helps us move quickly, provides clarity, and enables asynchronous work.  The "Why this way?" page in the handbook discusses some of our most important decisions about the best way to work and the reasoning for them.  For example: _"Why open source?"_, _"Why do we use a wireframe-first approach?"_, _"Why direct responsibility?_, and _"Why handbook-first strategy?"_  You can read more about these principles and suggest improvements in ["📖Company/Why this way?"](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way)

> You can read more about what it's like to work at Fleet in ["📖Company/Communications"](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications).


## Open positions


<open-positions :open-positions="openPositions"></open-positions>


### Is it any good?

Here are a few reasons to work at Fleet:
- Work from anywhere with good internet. ([We're 100% remote](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/remote-work-how-set-boundaries-when-office-your-house-lora-vaughn/), No office. No commute.) Everyone works remote, but you don't feel remote. There is no 'headquarters'. You are free to travel and move.  Organize your workday to [fit your lifestyle](https://mikesolin.com/2023/08/05/finding-balance-while-working-remotely/).  Take breaks.  Go to the dentist.
- Fleet can offer you a competitive salary, significant equity, and an independent, outsider-friendly culture. Work with helpful, kind, and motivated people who know what they're doing.
- At Fleet, we value focus, iteration, and meaningful results – not [60 hour work weeks](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company#results). We are non-judgmental and laser-focused on growing the company.
- Work closely with experienced, well-funded founders and a great team, including the people who created osquery and Sails. We care about openness and transparency.
- Work computers can be private and safe. Help make endpoint monitoring less intrusive and more transparent.
- Protect the production servers and employee laptops of Earth's largest companies. Work on a product used by lots of people who care about what you do.
- Fleet is growing quickly, with significant revenue from Fortune 1000 customers. You will have lots of opportunities to make decisions, learn, and try new things.


## Values

Fleet's values are a set of five ideals adopted by everyone on the team. They describe the shared mindset we are working together to create, inside and outside the company: [🔴 Empathy](#empathy), [🟠 Ownership](#ownership), [🟢 Results](#results), [🔵 Objectivity](#objectivity), and [🟣 Openness](#openness).

Values play an important role in hiring, performance management, and compensation decisions.  When a new team member joins the company, they adopt our values, from day one.

This way, everybody knows what to expect from the people they work with.


### 🔴 Empathy
Empathy leads to smarter decisions.  Take an interest in what people are going through, so you can help make it better.

- **Assume positive intent.** Think and say [positive things](https://www.theatlantic.com/family/archive/2018/06/mr-rogers-neighborhood-talking-to-kids/562352/), and [assume](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/values/#assume-positive-intent) others are doing the same.  Keep it light.
- **Be a helper.** Take care of customers first. But give hospitality and [service with a smile](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fred_Rogers#Legacy) to everyone you can.
- **Read what you write.**  [Shorten](http://www.paulgraham.com/writing44.html) it. [Repeat](http://www.paulgraham.com/useful.html). <!-- Read it again, in context. Read it out loud.  Role play. Put yourself in the reader’s shoes.  Be clear and interesting. Write stuff worth reading.   Is ALL of it worth reading?  Roleplay. Use your imagination to see situations from different perspectives. -->
- **Get curious.**  Wonder about things. Notice. Ask people genuine questions, and listen closely.

### 🟠 Ownership
It takes a fully-activated mind to achieve ambitious goals, and remote work requires self-discipline.  Think like an owner of the company.

- **Be reliable.**  Reply quickly to email, Slack, and GitHub.  Prepare for meetings.  Arrive [on time](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#meetings).  Use handbooked [processes](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/leadership/#process-gets-a-bad-rep) and [decisions](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way#why-this-way).
- **Finish what you start.** Follow through on commitments.  Take responsibility for mistakes.  There's no time for finger-pointing.  [Just fix it](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/values/#bias-for-action).
- **No one is coming.** Take care of [things that need doing](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#spending-company-money), or loop in [the right people](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way#why-direct-responsibility) fast. It's up to you.  <!-- take initiative -->
- **Think long term.** Contribute to [the big picture](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company#purpose), beyond your department's goals. Reduce maintenance.  Beware the thicket.  <!-- Think [7 years ahead](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company#strategy). -->

### 🟢 Results
We work to get results. How we work determines what we get.  Aim to deliver results daily.

- **Iterate.** [Look for ways](https://youtu.be/BW6TWwNZzIQ) to make [smaller changes](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/product/product-principles/#the-minimal-viable-change-mvc), more often.  Always publish. <!-- Resist [gold plating](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gold_plating_(project_management)). -->
- **Start quickly.** Be 70% sure.  Resist [bike-shedding](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Law_of_triviality).  Between overthinking and rushing, there is a [golden mean](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Golden_mean_%28philosophy%29). <!-- [Satisfice](https://longform.asmartbear.com/maximizing) before optimizing. -->
- **Keep it simple.** [Spend less](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way#why-spend-less). Avoid preemptive structure.  Choose ["boring solutions"](https://about.gitlab.com/blog/2020/08/18/boring-solutions-faster-iteration/). Reuse systems. Avoid adding steps, especially handoffs. <!-- Be efficient. Avoid creating multiple ways to do the same thing.  Practicality over sophistication. -->
- **Be realistic.** Focus on one task at a time.  Resist [the urge to commit](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/37signals_the-problem-with-commitments-is-that-they-ugcPost-7252753513485619201-PdAw?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_ios) to every good idea.  Work [hard](https://paulgraham.com/hwh.html).  Schedule [time off](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#paid-time-off) to recharge. <!-- Practice self-care. -->

### 🔵 Objectivity
To reach our goals, we need to [see reality clearly](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intellectual_honesty).

- **Find the bottleneck.** When something isn't working, look for the worst part. 
 [Fix that first](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theory_of_constraints).
- **Change your mind.**  [Be willing to reconsider](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/values/#articulate-when-you-change-your-mind) in the face of new evidence. Escape the [sunk cost fallacy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sunk_cost).
- **Be rigorous.** A lucky streak can do more harm than good.  Understand why it works first.  Change one variable at a time. <!--  Certainty is overrated. Be a skeptic. Cultivate doubt. Interrogate luck. Check your assumptions.  “Fixes” are fleeting.  Don't say "just do XYZ".  Use [the scientific method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Empirical_research). The road to failure is paved with ["happy paths"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Happy_path). -->
- **Think for yourself.** Remember how often [conventional wisdom](http://www.paulgraham.com/think.html) isn't.  <!-- Use first principles thinking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ab_initio#Science_and_engineering) -->

### 🟣 Openness
Take the time to make [yourself](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#meetings) and [your work](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way#why-make-work-visible) visible.  This also takes courage.

- **Write it down.** Let people [find](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/values/#findability) and [reproduce](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/values/#reproducibility) your [decisions](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way#why-handbook-first-strategy).  Remove outdated content so your writing is trustworthy, and [write simply](http://www.paulgraham.com/simply.html) so it is outsider friendly.
- **Have short toes.** Everyone can contribute.  Get comfortable with [others contributing to your work](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/values/#short-toes).
- **Public by default.** Everything we do is [public by default](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way#why-open-source). Redact [non-public info](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/communications#levels-of-confidentiality) carefully.
- **Speak freely.** Interrupt and be interrupted.  Give pointed and respectful feedback, even [when you disagree](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way#why-this-way). 

<!--
### 🪩 Dumb luck

Ever wonder why there are 6 circles in the Fleet logo, but only 5 values?  Behold, the sixth value: dumb luck.

-->

## History

### 2014: Origins of osquery
In 2014, our cofounder Zach Wasserman, together with [Mike Arpaia](https://twitter.com/mikearpaia/status/1357455391588839424) and the rest of their team at Facebook, created an open source project called [osquery](https://osquery.io).

### 2016: Origins of Fleet v1.0
A few years later, Zach, Mike Arpaia, and [Jason Meller](https://honest.security) founded [Kolide](https://kolide.com) and created Fleet: an open source platform that made it easier and more productive to use osquery in an enterprise setting.

### 2019: The growing community
When Kolide's attention shifted away from Fleet, and towards their separate, user-focused SaaS offering, the Fleet community [took over maintenance](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/press/press-release/the-linux-foundation-announces-intent-to-form-new-foundation-to-support-osquery-community) of the open-source project. After his time at Kolide, Zach continued as lead maintainer of Fleet.  He spent 2019 consulting and working with the growing open source community to support and extend the capabilities of the Fleet platform.

### 2020: Fleet was incorporated
Zach partnered with our [CEO, Mike McNeil](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/leadership#ceo-flaws), to found a new, independent company: Fleet Device Management Inc.  In November 2020, we [announced](https://medium.com/fleetdm/a-new-fleet-d4096c7de978) the transition and kicked off the logistics of moving the GitHub repository.

### 2022: Millions of hosts
Fleet raised its Series A funding round.  The world now has at least 1.65 million computers and virtual hosts enrolled in Fleet, including enterprises, governments, startups, families, and hobbyist racks all over the world.

### 2023: Your last MDM migration
Fleet added support for [scripting and management capabilities](https://fleetdm.com/announcements/fleet-introduces-windows-mdm) on macOS, Windows, _and_ Linux devices, allowing IT departments to manage devices more consistently using modern tooling and best practices.  This allowed many customers to simplify their management practices.  In several cases, Fleet was also able to save customers several hundreds of thousands of dollars (USD) by cutting tool overlap across platforms such as Jamf, Airwatch, Intune, MobileIron, Nexthink, Tanium, Uptycs, and Rapid7.

### 2024: Fleet is growing globally 
Fleet has expanded into 90+ countries, with 100+ customers and 2.24 million computers and virtual hosts enrolled (including the world's most powerful computers). 

<!-- 2024: and implement "zero trust" faster -->

> Still curious? Check out this [visualization of the Fleet repo over the years](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7045068060168220672/) or listen to this [conversation between Zach and Mike Arpaia about the origin story of osquery](https://fleetdm.com/podcasts/the-future-of-device-management-ep1).

## Org chart
To provide clarity about decision-making, [responsibility](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way#why-direct-responsibility), and resources, everyone at Fleet has a manager, and [every manager](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/leadership) has direct reports.  Fleet's organizational chart is accessible company-wide as a sub-tab in ["🧑‍🚀 Fleeties" (private google doc)](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1OSLn-ZCbGSjPusHPiR5dwQhheH1K8-xqyZdsOe9y7qc/edit#gid=0).  On the other sub-tabs, you can also check out a world map of where everyone is located, hiring stats, and fun facts about each team member.

- 🚀 [Engineering](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/engineering): The Engineering department at Fleet is directly responsible for writing and maintaining the code for Fleet's core product, as well as Fleet's Information technology (IT) infrastructure.
- 🦢 [Product Design](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/product-design): The Product Design department is directly responsible for defining and prioritizing the changes made to the core product, Fleet API, and reference documentation.
- 🌐 [IT & Enablement](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/it-and-enablement): The IT & Enablement department is directly responsible for solutions consulting, customer training curriculum, prospect enablement, and dogfooding, as well as the framework, schema, equipment, internal tooling, automation, and technology behind Fleet's Go-To-Market (GTM) systems, remote work, the handbook, issue templates, Zapier flows, Docusign templates, key spreadsheets, and project management tools.
- 🌦️ [Customer Success](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/customer-success): The customer success department is directly responsible for ensuring that customers and community members of Fleet achieve their desired outcomes with Fleet products and services.
- 🐋 [Sales](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/sales): The Sales department is directly responsible for attaining the revenue goals of Fleet and helping customers deliver on their objectives.
- 🫧 [Marketing](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/marketing): The Marketing department is directly responsible for growing awareness of Fleet and nurturing the community through participation in events, conversations, and other programs.
- 💸 [Finance](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/finance): The Finance department is directly responsible for accounts receivable including invoicing, accounts payable including commision calculations, expense reporting including Brex memos and maintaining accurate spend projections in "🧮The numbers", sales taxes, payroll taxes, corporate income/franchise taxes, and financial operations including bank accounts and cash flow management.
- 🧑‍🚀 [People](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/people): The People department is directly responsible for Fleet's culture, human resources, benefits, recruiting, workiversaries, opening positions, compensation planning, onboarding, and offboarding.


## Advisors
While most improvements at Fleet are driven by informal conversations with customers and open-source contributors, the company also has a few dozen advisors and investors, including  
[Sid](https://about.gitlab.com/blog/2022/10/14/one-third-of-what-we-learned-about-ipos-in-taking-gitlab-public/) [Sijbrandij](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/ceo/#sijbrandij-pronunciation-hint) _(GitLab)_, [Dylan Field](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dylan_Field) _(Figma)_, [Mike Arpaia](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zfCak2UIOD8) _(osquery)_, [Alexandr Wang](https://www.businessofbusiness.com/articles/scale-ai-machine-learning-startup-alexandr-wang/) _(Scale AI)_, [Sanjay](https://www.zdnet.com/article/vmware-buys-airwatch-for-1-54-billion-acquires-mobility-strategy/) [Poonen](https://www.businessinsider.com/vmware-carbon-black-acquisition-sanjay-poonen-cybersecurity-2019-10?op=1) _(VMware, Cohesity)_, and [other smart people who are eager to help](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/15knBE2-PrQ1Ad-QcIk0mxCN-xFsATKK9hcifqrm0qFQ/edit).  If you have a question for one of them, Fleet's CEO is happy to introduce you.  ([Just ask](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/leadership#contact-the-ceo).)


<meta name="maintainedBy" value="mikermcneil">
<meta name="title" value="🔭 Company">
