# Seeding data

When developing Fleet, it may be useful to create seed data that includes users and teams.


In order to run scripts that make use of premium features, make sure you have started the server with the correct flags as described in [Testing](./Testing-and-local-development.md#license-key). Note: [SMTP must be enabled](https://fleetdm.com/docs/contributing/testing-and-local-development#manually-testing-email-with-mail-hog) prior to seeding users on a team. Failure to do so will result in premium users being assigned Global roles.

Check out this Loom demo video that walks through creating teams seed data:
https://www.loom.com/share/1c41a1540e8f41328a7a6cfc56ad0a01

For a text-based walkthrough, following these steps:

## Create an environment variable file

First, create an `env` file with the following contents:

```
export SERVER_URL=https://localhost:8080 # your Fleet server URL and port
export CURL_FLAGS='-k -s' # set insecure flag
export TOKEN=eyJhbGciOi... # your api token
```

Conveniently, you can store the `env` file as `fleet_env` in the `./code/fleet-api-env` directory.

## Apply your environment variable file

Next, set the `FLEET_ENV_PATH` to point to the `env` file using the command line.

```
export FLEET_ENV_PATH=./code/fleet-api-env/fleet_env
```

This will let the scripts in the `/tools/api/fleet/` folder source the `env` file.

## Run one of the bash scripts to seed the data

Finally, run one of the bash scripts located in the [/tools/api](../../tools/api/README.md) directory.

The `fleet/create_free` script will generate an environment to roughly reflect an installation of Fleet Free. The script creates three users with different roles.

```
bash ./tools/api/fleet/teams/create_free
```

The `fleet/create_premium` script will generate an environment to roughly reflect an installation of Fleet Premium. The script will create two teams of seven users with different roles.

```
bash ./tools/api/fleet/teams/create_premium
```

The `fleet/create_figma` script will generate an environment to reflect the mockups in the Fleet EE (current) Figma file. The script creates three teams and twelve users with different roles.

```
bash ./tools/api/fleet/teams/create_figma
```

Each user-generated by the script has its password set to `password123#`.

<meta name="pageOrderInSection" value="600">

## Related scripts

### Importing queries

After seeding users and teams, checkout [importing queries](https://fleetdm.com/docs/using-fleet/standard-query-library#importing-the-queries-in-fleet) from Fleet's [standard query library](https://fleetdm.com/queries)