articles/roadmap-preview-january-2025.md, before:

# Roadmap preview, January 2025

<div purpose="embedded-content">
   <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/G5W5pjzOfVM" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

The Fleet roadmap is set for the first three months of 2025. Watch the video above for a walkthrough, or continue reading for the highlights.

In the next 3 months, Fleet will ship...
- 🛡️ Integration with Microsoft compliance tools
- 🦾 Read-only GitOps mode
- 💝 Fleet-maintained apps for Windows
- ☑️ Integration with DigiCert
- 🎡 One queue for MDM commands, software, and scripts
- 📱 Android MDM for personal devices (BYOD)
- 🔍 More data for detection & response and threat hunting
- 🔄 Auto-patch software without writing custom policies
- 🧑‍💼 Identify provider host vitals

Big opportunities that Fleet is building towards in the near future (next 180 days):
- 🍏 Account-based user enrollment for personal devices (BYOD)
- 🗓️ Native patching for apps and OS during maintenance windows
- 🤖 AI-generated osquery queries

Any feedback or a questions?  Contributions welcome! You can find us [where we hang out](https://fleetdm.com/support).

<meta name="category" value="announcements">
<meta name="authorFullName" value="Noah Talerman">
<meta name="authorGitHubUsername" value="noahtalerman">
<meta name="publishedOn" value="2025-01-08">
<meta name="articleTitle" value="Roadmap preview, January 2025">
<meta name="description" value="The product improvements Fleet is currently working on and the 3 biggest open opportunities in the product in the near future.">

Commit message:

Product Design ritual: Go back and edit roadmap items that are no longer true (#31069)
- Add ritual and do it retroactively to old roadmap articles, given the
most recent July 2025, roadmap preview:
https://fleetdm.com/announcements/roadmap-preview-july-2025

articles/roadmap-preview-january-2025.md, after:

# Roadmap preview, January 2025

<div purpose="embedded-content">
   <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/G5W5pjzOfVM" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

The Fleet roadmap is set for the first three months of 2025. Watch the video above for a walkthrough, or continue reading for the highlights.

In the next 3 months, Fleet will ship...
- 🛡️ Integration with Microsoft compliance tools
- 🦾 Read-only GitOps mode
- 💝 Fleet-maintained apps for Windows
- ☑️ Integration with DigiCert
- 🎡 One queue for ~~MDM commands~~, software, and scripts *
- 📱 Android MDM for personal devices (BYOD)
- 🔍 More data for detection & response and threat hunting
- ~~🔄 Auto-patch software without writing custom policies~~ *
- 🧑‍💼 Identify provider host vitals

Big opportunities that Fleet is building towards in the near future (next 180 days):
- 🍏 Account-based user enrollment for personal devices (BYOD)
- ~~🗓️ Native patching for apps and OS during maintenance windows~~ *
- ~~🤖 AI-generated osquery queries~~ *

* To see the up-to-date roadmap, find the latest roadmap article in [Fleet's announcements](https://fleetdm.com/announcements).

Any feedback or a questions?  Contributions welcome! You can find us [where we hang out](https://fleetdm.com/support).

<meta name="category" value="announcements">
<meta name="authorFullName" value="Noah Talerman">
<meta name="authorGitHubUsername" value="noahtalerman">
<meta name="publishedOn" value="2025-01-08">
<meta name="articleTitle" value="Roadmap preview, January 2025">
<meta name="description" value="The product improvements Fleet is currently working on and the 3 biggest open opportunities in the product in the near future.">
