articles/roadmap-preview-april-2025.md, before:

# Roadmap preview, April 2025

<div purpose="embedded-content">
   <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8EZAblx9MWQ?si=4TuNV6czC-iPlI9l" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

The Fleet roadmap is set for spring 2025. Watch the video above for a walkthrough, or continue reading for the highlights.

In the next 3 months, Fleet will ship...

For Security Engineers:
- 📊 Vulnerability (CVE) graphs/visualizations
- ⏰ Schedule and run scripts offline
- 🔍 Filter hosts with custom host vitals (ala Sal)
- 📄 Deploy certificates for Wi-Fi and VPN on Windows and Linux computers

For IT Admins:
- 🛡️ Integration with Microsoft Entra for conditional access
- 👨‍💻 100 Fleet-maintained apps for macOS & Windows (50 each)
- 📅 Patch apps when end users are free
- ~~⬇️ Easier agent downloads~~ UPDATE: Host vitals as variables in scripts and configuration profiles (2025-04-23)
- 🍏 Account-based user enrollment for personal Apple devices (BYOD)
- 🤖 Configuration profiles, OS updates, and software management for BYOD Android
- ⏳ See upcoming and past MDM command history

Big opportunities that Fleet is building towards in the near future (next 180 days):
- 🤖 Auto-complete osquery queries (SQL), Bash scripts, and PowerShell scripts
- 👻 Fleet for configuration management (ala Puppet)
- 📉 Report time-to-fix (aka "timeframes") for top vulnerabilities

Any feedback or a questions? Contributions welcome! You can find us [where we hang out](https://fleetdm.com/support).

<meta name="category" value="announcements">
<meta name="authorFullName" value="Noah Talerman">
<meta name="authorGitHubUsername" value="noahtalerman">
<meta name="publishedOn" value="2025-04-01">
<meta name="articleTitle" value="Roadmap preview, April 2025">
<meta name="description" value="The product improvements Fleet is currently working on and the 3 biggest open opportunities in the product in the near future.">

Commit message:

Go back and edit roadmap items that are no longer true
Given the most recent July 2025, roadmap preview: https://fleetdm.com/announcements/roadmap-preview-july-2025

articles/roadmap-preview-april-2025.md, after:

# Roadmap preview, April 2025

<div purpose="embedded-content">
   <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8EZAblx9MWQ?si=4TuNV6czC-iPlI9l" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

The Fleet roadmap is set for spring 2025. Watch the video above for a walkthrough, or continue reading for the highlights.

In the next 3 months, Fleet will ship...

For Security Engineers:
- ~~📊 Vulnerability (CVE) graphs/visualizations~~ *
- ⏰ Schedule and run scripts offline
- ~~🔍 Filter hosts with custom host vitals (ala Sal)~~ *
- 📄 Deploy certificates for Wi-Fi and VPN on Windows and Linux computers

For IT Admins:
- 🛡️ Integration with Microsoft Entra for conditional access
- ~~👨‍💻 100 Fleet-maintained apps for macOS & Windows (50 each)~~ *
- ~~📅 Patch apps when end users are free~~ *
- ~~⬇️ Easier agent downloads~~ *
- 🍏 Account-based user enrollment for personal Apple devices (BYOD)
- 🤖 Configuration profiles, ~~OS updates~~, and software management for BYOD Android
- ~~⏳ See upcoming and past MDM command history~~

Big opportunities that Fleet is building towards in the near future (next 180 days):
- ~~🤖 Auto-complete osquery queries (SQL), Bash scripts, and PowerShell scripts~~ *
- ~~👻 Fleet for configuration management (ala Puppet)~~ *
- ~~📉 Report time-to-fix (aka "timeframes") for top vulnerabilities~~ *

* To see the up-to-date roadmap, see the [July 2025 preview](https://fleetdm.com/announcements/roadmap-preview-july-2025).

Any feedback or a questions? Contributions welcome! You can find us [where we hang out](https://fleetdm.com/support).

<meta name="category" value="announcements">
<meta name="authorFullName" value="Noah Talerman">
<meta name="authorGitHubUsername" value="noahtalerman">
<meta name="publishedOn" value="2025-04-01">
<meta name="articleTitle" value="Roadmap preview, April 2025">
<meta name="description" value="The product improvements Fleet is currently working on and the 3 biggest open opportunities in the product in the near future.">
