articles/scripts.md, before:

# Scripts

In Fleet you can run custom scripts to remediate an issue on your macOS, Windows, and Linux hosts.

Shell scripts are supported on macOS and Linux. By default, shell scripts will run in the host's (root) shell (`/bin/sh`). We also support `/bin/zsh` and `/bin/bash` interpreters.
Note: To run in `/bin/zsh` or `/bin/bash`, create `.sh` file (only supported extension) and add an interpreter at the first line.

PowerShell scripts are supported on Windows. Other types of scripts are not supported yet.

Script execution is disabled by default. Continue reading to learn how to enable scripts.

## Enable scripts

If you use Fleet's macOS MDM features, scripts are automatically enabled for macOS hosts that have MDM turned on. You're set!

If you don't use MDM features, to enable scripts, we'll [deploy a fleetd agent](https://fleetdm.com/guides/enroll-hosts) with scripts enabled:

1. Generate a new fleetd agent for macOS, Windows, or Linux using the `fleetctl package` command with the `--enable-scripts` flag. 

2. Deploy fleetd to your hosts. If your hosts already have fleetd installed, you can deploy the new fleetd on-top of the old installation.

## Manually run scripts

You can run a script in the Fleet UI, with Fleet API, or with the fleetctl command-line interface (CLI).

Fleet UI:

1. In Fleet, head to the **Controls > Scripts** tab and upload your script.

2. Head to the **Hosts** page and select the host you want to run the script on.

3. On your target host's host details page, select the **Actions** dropdown and select **Run Script** to view the **Run Script** menu.

4. In the **Run Script** menu, select the **Actions** dropdown for the script you'd like to execute and choose the **Run** option.

Scripts run from the Fleet UI will run the next time your host checks in with Fleet. You can view the status of the script execution as well as the output in the target host's activity feed.

Fleet API: See our [REST API documentation](https://fleetdm.com/docs/rest-api/rest-api#run-script)

fleetctl CLI:

```sh
fleetctl run-script --script-path=/path/to/script --host=hostname
```

## Automatically run scripts

You can [automatically run scripts](https://fleetdm.com/guides/policy-automation-run-script) using Fleet via policy automations.

## Batch execute scripts

You can execute a script on a large number of hosts at the same time using the Fleet UI or Fleet API.

Fleet UI:

1. In Fleet, go to the **Hosts** page, and select a team.

2. Select the hosts that you want to run the script on.

3. Click the **Run Script** button at the top of the list of hosts.

4. In the **Run Script** modal, mouse over the script you want to run and click **Run Script**.

5. Either close the modal or select another script to run.

Fleet API: See the [REST API documentation](https://fleetdm.com/docs/rest-api/rest-api#batch-run-script)

<meta name="category" value="guides">
<meta name="authorGitHubUsername" value="noahtalerman">
<meta name="authorFullName" value="Noah Talerman">
<meta name="publishedOn" value="2024-10-07">
<meta name="articleTitle" value="Scripts">
<meta name="description" value="Learn how to execute a custom script on macOS, Windows, and Linux hosts in Fleet.">

Commit message:

Add docs for batch script filtering update

articles/scripts.md, after:

# Scripts

In Fleet you can run custom scripts to remediate an issue on your macOS, Windows, and Linux hosts.

Shell scripts are supported on macOS and Linux. By default, shell scripts will run in the host's (root) shell (`/bin/sh`). We also support `/bin/zsh` and `/bin/bash` interpreters.
Note: To run in `/bin/zsh` or `/bin/bash`, create `.sh` file (only supported extension) and add an interpreter at the first line.

PowerShell scripts are supported on Windows. Other types of scripts are not supported yet.

Script execution is disabled by default. Continue reading to learn how to enable scripts.

## Enable scripts

If you use Fleet's macOS MDM features, scripts are automatically enabled for macOS hosts that have MDM turned on. You're set!

If you don't use MDM features, to enable scripts, we'll [deploy a fleetd agent](https://fleetdm.com/guides/enroll-hosts) with scripts enabled:

1. Generate a new fleetd agent for macOS, Windows, or Linux using the `fleetctl package` command with the `--enable-scripts` flag. 

2. Deploy fleetd to your hosts. If your hosts already have fleetd installed, you can deploy the new fleetd on-top of the old installation.

## Manually run scripts

You can run a script in the Fleet UI, with Fleet API, or with the fleetctl command-line interface (CLI).

Fleet UI:

1. In Fleet, head to the **Controls > Scripts** tab and upload your script.

2. Head to the **Hosts** page and select the host you want to run the script on.

3. On your target host's host details page, select the **Actions** dropdown and select **Run Script** to view the **Run Script** menu.

4. In the **Run Script** menu, select the **Actions** dropdown for the script you'd like to execute and choose the **Run** option.

Scripts run from the Fleet UI will run the next time your host checks in with Fleet. You can view the status of the script execution as well as the output in the target host's activity feed.

Fleet API: See our [REST API documentation](https://fleetdm.com/docs/rest-api/rest-api#run-script)

fleetctl CLI:

```sh
fleetctl run-script --script-path=/path/to/script --host=hostname
```

## Automatically run scripts

You can [automatically run scripts](https://fleetdm.com/guides/policy-automation-run-script) using Fleet via policy automations.

## Batch execute scripts

You can execute a script on a large number of hosts at the same time using the Fleet UI or Fleet API.

Fleet UI:

1. In Fleet, go to the **Hosts** page, and select a team.

2. Select the hosts that you want to run the script on.

3. Click the **Run Script** button at the top of the list of hosts.

4. In the **Run Script** modal, mouse over the script you want to run and click **Run Script**.

5. Either close the modal or select another script to run.

After you've initiated a batch script run, you can see its status by finding the related activity on the main dashboard:

1. Click the logo in the upper-left corner of the page.
2. If your Fleet instance has multiple teams, select "All Teams" from the dropdown.
3. In the "Activity" section, click on the related activity (for example, "**John Doe** ran the **check-status.sh** script on 5 hosts")
4. A modal window will pop up displaying the number of hosts targeted and breaking down the host count by how many have run the script successfully, how many are pending (waiting to run the script) and how many have returned an _error_ (either because they were not eligible to run the script, or because the script returned an error).  
5. You may click the numbers next to "Ran", "Pending" and "Error" to view the list of hosts in that state.


Fleet API: See the [REST API documentation](https://fleetdm.com/docs/rest-api/rest-api#batch-run-script)

<meta name="category" value="guides">
<meta name="authorGitHubUsername" value="noahtalerman">
<meta name="authorFullName" value="Noah Talerman">
<meta name="publishedOn" value="2024-10-07">
<meta name="articleTitle" value="Scripts">
<meta name="description" value="Learn how to execute a custom script on macOS, Windows, and Linux hosts in Fleet.">
